BAKED FALAFEL BURGERS
 
 

Prep time

Cook time

Total time

20 mins

40 mins

1 hour

Healthy, 7 Ingredient V GF Falafel Burgers! Simple, flavorful,
perfect with pita, greens or atop a salad!
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Entree
Cuisine: Vegan, Mediterranean
Serves: 4

Ingredients
FALAFEL
1 bundle fresh parsley (~2 cups chopped)
3 large cloves garlic
1 large lemon (~2 1/2 Tbsp juice)
scant 1/2 tsp sea salt + black pepper
1 1/4 tsp cumin
1 15-ounce can chickpeas, well rinsed and drained
1/4 - 1/2 cup ground raw walnuts, pecans, almonds or GF oat flour
TOPPINGS / FOR SERVING
Garlic Dill sauce
Chili Garlic Sauce or Sriracha
5 minute Hummus
Tomato, Lettuce, Onion
Pita or sturdy greens, such as chard or collard greens

Instructions
1. Add parsley, garlic, lemon juice, cumin and a healthy pinch each salt and pepper to a food processor and
mix to combine.
2. Add chickpeas and pulse until incorporated but still slightly chunky. You want to maintain a bit of
texture.
3. Transfer to a mixing bowl and add nut meal (or oat flour) and mix again until a loose dough is formed
that's firm enough to be handled. Taste and adjust seasonings as needed. I added a touch more salt.
4. Draw an “x” in the dough to form 4 sections, then use your hands to form into 4 large patties roughly 1/2inch thick.
5. Place on a foil-lined baking sheet and refrigerate or freeze for 15 minutes to firm up. Preheat oven to 375
degrees F in the meantime.

6. OPTIONAL STEP: For a little extra crust on the outside, before baking heat a large skillet over medium to
medium-high heat and add 2 Tbsp olive or canola oil. Swirl to coat pan, then add falafel. Carefully flip
once golden brown – about 3-4 minutes - and then cook on the other side until golden brown as well - 3-4
more minutes. Return to baking sheet to continue baking. Otherwise, just add them straight to the oven
for baking.
7. Bake for a total of 30-40 minutes, flipping once at the halfway point for even cooking. The longer you bake
them, the firmer they’ll get!
8. Serve warm wrapped in a pita or chard bun and desired sauces / toppings. Alternatively, serve atop a
salad and use the garlic sauce as a dressing.
9. Burgers will store in the fridge, layered with parchment paper in an airtight container, for several days.
Freeze to keep longer.

Notes
* Adapted from my Better Than Restaurant V GF Falafel
* Nutrition information is a rough estimate for 1 of 4 burgers without toppings.

Nutrition Information
Serving size: 1 burger
Sugar: 0.8g

Calories: 180

Sodium: 620mg

Fat: 10g

Fiber: 4.6g

Saturated fat: 0.7g

Carbohydrates: 17.2g

Protein: 9.4g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/baked-falafelburgers/

