VEGGIE BROWN RICE SUSHI
 
Prep time

Cook time

Total time

30 mins

25 mins

55 mins

 

Easy, 10-ingredient sushi with sticky brown rice and vegetables.
Hearty, healthy, and delicious. Methods provided for with and
without a sushi mat!
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Entrée
Cuisine: Vegan, Gluten Free
Serves: 3-4

Ingredients
RICE
1 2/3 cups (400 ml) water
1 cup (190 g) short grain brown rice, rinsed
3 Tbsp (45 ml) rice wine vinegar
2 Tbsp (25 g) organic cane sugar
1/2 tsp sea salt
SUSHI
4 sheets nori (dried seaweed)
1 roasted or fresh red bell pepper*, sliced (~135 g)
1 cup (122 g) thinly sliced carrots
1 cup (104 g) thinly sliced cucumber
1 cup (18 g) sprouts (Alfalfa is best)
FOR SERVING optional
Tamari (or soy sauce if not gluten free)
Pickled ginger
Wasabi
Sesame seeds

Instructions
1. In a medium saucepan, bring water to a boil then add rice, swirl to coat, and lower heat to low and cover.
Simmer until water is completely absorbed and rice is tender – about 18-25 minutes. Drain off any excess
water if there is any.
2. In the meantime, add vinegar, sugar and salt to a small saucepan and heat over medium heat stirring
occasionally until sugar and salt are dissolved. Place in a jar or dish and cool in the fridge until rice is

ready.
3. Once the rice is done, kill the heat and add the cooled vinegar mixture and stir with a rubber spatula or
fork as to not overmix. It will appear wet but will dry up as you lightly stir to release heat. It should be
sticky and completely dry once it’s ready.
4. While the rice finishes cooking, prep your veggies by chopping them into thin pieces. If they’re too bulky
they won’t allow the sushi to roll well.
5. Now it’s time to roll: Grab your sushi mat and top with a sheet of nori. Using your hands dipped in water
(to avoid sticking), pat a very thin layer of rice all over the nori, making sure it’s not too thick or your roll
will be all rice and no filling (see photo).
6. Then, arrange a generous serving of your veggies or preferred filling in a line at the bottom 3/4 of the rice
closest to you (see photo).
7. Start to roll the nori and rice over with your fingers, and once the veggies are covered, roll the mat over
to mold and compress the roll. Continue until it’s all the way rolled up. I find slicing with a very sharp
serrated knife yields the best results. Repeat until all rice and fillings are used up - about 5-6 total rolls.
8. Serve immediately with pickled ginger, tamari or soy sauce, and wasabi. Best when fresh, though leftovers
keep covered in the refrigerator up to 2 days.

Notes
*If you don't have a sushi mat (I got mine super cheap here), you can check out this tutorial!
*You can buy roasted red peppers at the store to save time. Otherwise, here's a tutorial to make them at home!

Nutrition Information
Serving size: 1 roll (of 6)
g

Fiber: 3.2 g

Calories: 154

Fat: 1 g

Saturated fat: 0 g

Carbohydrates: 32 g

Sugar: 6.4

Protein: 3.3 g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/veggie-brown-ricesushi/

