Chopped Miso Salad Recipe
I used Westbrae Natural Organic Mellow Brown Rice Miso for the dressing. If you
like the flavor of sesame oil ­ go ahead and add it to your dressing in fact you can
go ahead and add it "to taste" ­ although sometimes I like to go a bit more neutral
and skip rhe sesame oil altogether. I also had two small heads of little gem lettuce
so I threw them in here as well. You can use any kind of extra­firm tofu you like
here ­ this salad works well with baked tofu or plain. Tofu cooked in a skillet for a
few minutes to take on some color is great ­ I cheated a bit and used Soy Deli baked
tofu (savory) for the salad pictured up above.
1 1/2 cups shallots, skinned and thinly sliced
splash of extra-virgin olive oil
pinch of salt
2 tablespoons miso
1/2 teaspoon powdered mustard (or a bit of whatever mustard you have around)
2 tablespoons brown sugar (or honey or agave)
1/4 cup (brown) rice vinegar
1/3 cup mild flavored extra-virgin olive oil
1 teaspoon pure toasted sesame oil (optional)
1/2 of a medium-large cabbage
1 cup slivered almonds, toasted
1/2 medium red onion, sliced
3/4 cup chives, minced
8 ounces extra-firm tofu (see headnotes), room temperature
Stir together the shallots, splash of olive oil and big pinch of salt In a large skillet
over medium heat. Stir every few minutes, you want the shallots to slowly brown
over about 15 minutes. Let them get dark, dark brown (but not burn). if needed turn
down the heat. Remove them from the skillet and onto a paper towel to cool in a
single layer. they should crisp up a bit.
Make the dressing by whisking the miso, mustard, and brown sugar together. Now
whisk in the rice vinegar and keep whisking until it's smooth. Gradually whisk in the
olive oil, and then the sesame oil. Two pinches of fine grain salt. Taste and make any
adjustments if needed.
Cut the cabbage into two quarters and cut out the core. Using a knife shred each
quarter into whisper thin slices. The key here is bite-sized and thin. If any pieces
look like they might be awkwardly long, cut those in half.
Gently toss the cabbage, shallots, almonds, red onion, chives and tofu in a large
mixing/salad bowl. Add a generous drizzle of the miso dressing and toss again - until
the dressing is evenly distributed. Add more a bit at a time if needed, until the salad
is dressed to your liking.
Serves 3 ­ 4 as a main dish, 6 ­ 8 as a side.

101 Cookbooks http://www.101cookbooks.com/

