CREAMY ASPARAGUS AND PEA SOUP
 
 

Prep time

Cook time

Total time

5 mins

25 mins

30 mins

Simple, 30-minute roasted asparagus soup with peas, shallot and
garlic! Almond milk makes this soup so creamy and satisfying and
garlic croutons add the perfect finishing touch.
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Soup
Cuisine: Vegan, Gluten Free
Serves: 4

Ingredients
SOUP
Olive or avocado oil
12 ounces (1 large bundle) asparagus, trimmed
10 ounces (~2 cups) fresh or frozen peas
4 cloves garlic, minced
1 shallot, thinly sliced
Salt + Pepper
1 1/2 cups Almond Breeze unsweetened plain almond milk
1 1/2 cups vegetable broth
1-2 Tbsp nutritional yeast (optional | for a slightly cheesy flavor)
1/2 lemon, juiced (optional, for brightness)
GARLIC HERB CROUTONS
2 cups bread (any kind), cubed
1/4 cup olive oil (or other neutral oil)
1/4 tsp each garlic powder, salt + pepper, dried oregano, dried basil

Instructions
1. Preheat oven to 400 degrees F and spread asparagus on a bare baking sheet. Drizzle with oil of choice and
season lightly with salt and pepper. Toss to coat.
2. Roast for 15 minutes, then set aside. If making croutons, reduce heat to 325 degrees F at this time.
3. Heat a large saucepan or pot medium heat. Once hot, add 2 Tbsp oil and shallot and garlic. Season lightly
with salt and pepper and stir to coat. Cook for 2-3 minutes or until fragrant and translucent. Reduce heat
if garlic begins browning.
4. Add peas, vegetable broth and almond milk and season with salt and pepper once more.

5. Transfer soup to blender along with asparagus (reserve some for garnish if desired). Blend soup until
creamy and smooth. Transfer back to pot and bring to medium heat and simmer.
6. Add nutritional yeast and whisk. Continue cooking until warmed through and simmering, then reduce
heat to low.
7. Taste and adjust seasonings as needed, adding more salt and pepper if desired. Remove from heat and add
lemon juice.
8. If serving with croutons, prep while soup is simmering by lowering oven heat to 325 degrees F.
9. Add bread crumbs to a mixing bowl. In a separate bowl, whisk together oil and seasonings and pour over
bread crumbs and toss to combine. Season once more with a bit more garlic powder, salt and pepper. Toss
once more.
10. Spread on a clean baking sheet (or the one you used earlier) and bake or 15-20 minutes, or until golden
brown. Flip/stir at the 10-minute mark to ensure even baking.
11. Serve soup with croutons and a touch of black pepper and/or vegan parmesan cheese. Leftovers keep
covered in the fridge for up to a few days, though best when fresh.

Notes
*Nutrition information is a rough estimate for 1 of 4 servings without croutons.

Nutrition Information
Serving size: 1/4 of recipe
Sugar: 5.9g

Calories: 143

Sodium: 652 mg

Fiber: 6.5g

Fat: 5.5g

Saturated fat: .7g

Carbohydrates: 16.4g

Protein: 9.2g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/creamy-asparagusand-pea-soup/

