CREAMY KALE AND SPINACH DIP
 
 

Prep time

Cook time

Total time

1 hour 15 mins

15 mins

1 hour 30 mins

Simple vegan spinach and kale dip made with just 9 ingredients
that will please a crowd. Cheesy, hearty, chock full of greens and
so delicious. Perfect for holiday parties and beyond.
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Appetizer
Cuisine: Vegan, Gluten Free
Serves: 6

Ingredients
1 1/4 cups cashews, soaked overnight or in boiling hot water for 1 hour (then thoroughly drained)
1 Tbsp + 1 Tbsp olive oil, divided
1/2 cup unsweetened plain almond milk (sub up to half with water)
4-6 Tbsp nutritional yeast (to taste)
3/4 tsp + 1/4 tsp sea salt, divided
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 10-ounce package frozen chopped spinach, thawed and squeeze drained
3 cups kale, finely chopped (or just double up on spinach)
1/4 cup Vegan Parmesan Cheese
veggies, chips, or 1/2 baguette sliced and toasted, for serving (optional)

Instructions
1. If you haven’t soaked your cashews yet, do so the night before in room temperature water, or 1 hour
before in very hot water. Drain thoroughly.
2. Preheat oven to 350 degrees and lightly grease a small, oven-safe serving dish (see photo for size
reference).
3. Add soaked and drained cashews to a blender with almond milk and puree into a cream. Add 1/4 cup
nutritional yeast, 3/4 tsp sea salt and mix once more. Taste and adjust seasonings as needed. You want it
pretty cheesy and well-salted, so I added the full 6 Tbsp nutritional yeast. Set aside.
4. In a large skillet over medium heat, sauté garlic in 1 Tbsp olive oil and then add spinach and kale. Season
with a healthy pinch (1/4 tsp) of sea salt and black pepper and cook for 5 minutes or until wilted, then
remove from heat.
5. Add 3/4 of the cashew cream (see photo) and toss to combine. If it can take more, add it in. Otherwise,
reserve the rest for pasta or other uses. Add 2 Tbsp vegan parmesan cheese for additional texture/flavor
and stir.

6. Add to prepared baking dish and top with remaining vegan parmesan.
7. Bake at 350 degree for 15-20 minutes, or until warmed through and sightly browned on top.
8. Before serving, top with additional vegan parmesan cheese if desired. Other add-ons might include red
pepper flake or hemp seeds.
9. Serve with assorted vegetables, tortilla chips, crackers, or toasted baguette. Store leftovers covered in the
fridge for up to a few days, though best when fresh.

Nutrition Information
Serving size: 1/6 of the recipe
Carbohydrates: 19g

Calories: 275 calories

Sugar: 1.7g

Sodium: 466mg

Fat: 19g
Fiber: 4.7g

Saturated fat: 3.5g
Protein: 11g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/creamy-kale-andspinach-dip/

