CRISPY PEANUT TOFU & CAULIFLOWER RICE STIR FRY
 
Prep time

Cook time

Total time

30 mins

1 hour

1 hour 30 mins

 

Crispy tofu that's baked not fried and tossed in a 5-ingredient
peanut glaze! Serve over cauliflower rice with sautéed veggies for
a completely plant-based meal that's entirely vegan + gluten free!
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Entree
Cuisine: Vegan, Asian
Serves: 2

Ingredients
STIRFRY
12 ounces (340 g) extra firm tofu, organic & non-GMO if possible*
1 Tbsp (15 ml) Toasted sesame oil
1 small head cauliflower (~ 580 g)
2 cloves garlic, minced (1 Tbsp or 6 g)
SAUCE
1.5 Tbsp (15 ml) Toasted sesame oil
1/4 cup (60 ml) low sodium soy sauce (gluten free for GF eaters)
1/4 cup (55 g) light brown sugar (or honey if not vegan)
1/2 tsp chili garlic sauce
2.5 Tbsp (40 g) peanut butter or almond butter (natural, salted)
OPTIONAL EXTRAS
Veggies (baby bok choy, green onion, red pepper, broccoli)
Toppings: Fresh lime juice, cilantro, sriracha

Instructions
1. Begin by draining tofu 1.5 hours before you want your meal ready. If your block of tofu is larger than 12
ounces, trim it down. You don’t need a full pound for this recipe (see notes).
2. Roll tofu in an absorbent towel several times and then place something heavy on top to press. I use a pot
on top of a cutting board and sometimes add something to the pot to add more weight. Do this for 15
minutes.
3. Near the end of draining, preheat oven to 400 degrees F (204 C) and cube tofu. Place on a parchment-lined
baking sheet and arrange in a single layer. Bake for 25 minutes to dry/firm the tofu. Once baked, remove
from oven and let cool.

4. Prepare sauce by whisking together ingredients until combined. Taste and adjust flavor as needed. I often
add a little more sweetener and peanut butter.
5. Add cooled tofu to the sauce and stir to coat. Let marinate for at least 15 minutes to saturate the tofu and
infuse the flavor.
6. In the meantime, shred your cauliflower into rice by using a large grater or food processor. You don’t
want it too fine, just somewhat close to the texture of rice. Set aside. Mince garlic if you haven’t already
done so, and prepare any veggies you want to add to the dish (optional).
7. Heat a large skillet over medium to medium-high heat (6 out of 10), and if adding any veggies to your dish,
cook them now in a bit of sesame oil and a dash of soy sauce. Remove from pan and set aside and cover to
keep warm.
8. Use a slotted spoon to spoon tofu into the preheated pan. Add a few spoonfuls of the sauce to coat. Cook,
stirring frequently for a few minutes until browned. It will stick to the pan a bit, so don't worry. Remove
from pan and set aside and cover to keep warm.
9. Rinse your pan under very hot water water and scrape away any residue. Place back on oven.
10. Add a drizzle of sesame oil to the pan, then add garlic and cauliflower rice and stir. Put cover on to steam
the “rice.” Cook for about 5-8 minutes until slightly browned and tender, stirring occasionally. Then add a
few spoonfuls of sauce to season and stir.
11. Place cauliflower rice and top with veggies and tofu. Serve with any leftover sauce. Leftovers reheat well
and will keep covered in the fridge for up to a couple days.

Notes
*My block of tofu was 16 ounces, so I removed a small amount because 1 pound is too much for this recipe.
Adjust the amount of tofu and sauce for the amount of people you’re serving.
*Tofu method adapted from my Tofu That Tastes Good Stir Fry

Nutrition Information
Serving size: 1/2 of recipe
Sugar: 24.7 g

Calories: 524

Sodium: 1400 mg

Fat: 34 g

Fiber: 7 g

Saturated fat: 5 g

Carbohydrates: 38.5 g

Protein: 24.5 g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/crispy-peanut-tofucauliflower-rice-stir-fry/

