DATE SWEETENED HORCHATA
 
 

Prep time

Cook time

Total time

20 mins

2 hours

2 hours 20 mins

Dates replace sugar in this healthier version of homemade
horchata. Hints of cinnamon and vanilla pop through in each sip perfectly refreshing on a warm day.
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Beverage
Cuisine: Mexican
Serves: 6

Ingredients
3/4 cup long grain white rice
6 cups water, divided
1 cup unsweetened plain or vanilla almond milk (or sub light coconut or rice milk)
1/2 - 3/4 cup pitted medjool or deglet nour dates (depending on desired sweetness)
1.5 tsp pure vanilla extract
1 cinnamon stick (or 1/2 tsp ground cinnamon)

Instructions
1. Soak rice in 2 cups very hot (not boiling water) for 2 hours. The rice should be soft but still very raw - you
should be able to snap a piece in half with your fingernail without much effort. Drain and add to a
blender.
2. Add 4 cups water, dates, vanilla, and the cinnamon stick, top with lid and cover with a towel to ensure it
doesn't splash. Blend for about 1 minute until the date specks are very small and the mixture seems well
combined. It doesn't have to be 100% pulverized.
3. Scoop out a small sample with a spoon to test sweetness. If it's not sweet enough, add more dates (or
honey if not vegan).
4. In two batches, pour the mixture over a bowl or pitcher covered with cheesecloth, a nut milk bag, very
thin towel, or a clean t-shirt or clean pair of panty hose (a tip I learned from My New Roots). I wrapped a
rubberband around my bowl to ensure it didn't come loose, but this isn't necessary.
5. Strain the mixture until only pulp remains in the cloth, squeezing to get every last drop out. It will take a
little effort depending on how pulverized your pulp is. Rinse out cloth and set aside for washing.
6. Next, stir in almond milk (optional), whisk and transfer to mason jars or a large beverage container with a
lid. Chill and serve over ice. Will keep in the fridge for several days.

Nutrition Information

Serving size: ~3/4 cup

Calories: 83

Fat: 1.5 g

Carbohydrates: 19 g

Sugar: 12 g

Fiber: 4 g

Protein: 1 g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/date-sweetenedhorchata/

