Jamaican Veggie Patties Recipe
You can certainly experiment with different sizes here, but don't go much smaller
than a 4­inch cookie cutter. Any smaller and they tend to come apart at the seams ­
a bit like gaping mouths (see lead photo). Also, be sure to roll the pastry dough
thinly ­ a true 1/8­inch. And lastIy, I can't resist brushing the patties with a bit of
beaten egg before placing them in the oven ­ it makes the crust nice and golden, but
also takes them out of the vegan category.
1 tablespoon coconut oil
1/2 cup 1/4-inch-diced yellow onion
1/8 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon allspice
1/2 teaspoon ground cumin
1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes
1/8 teaspoon cayenne
Coarse sea salt
2 larges cloves garlic, minced
3/4 cup coconut milk
1/4 cup 1/4-inch-diced carrots
1/4 cup 1/4-inch-diced yellow potatoes
1/2 cup fresh green peas (or frozen)
1/2 cup sweet fresh corn (or frozen)
1/2 cup shredded cabbage
1 tablespoon minced fresh thyme
1 tablespoon freshly squeezed lemon juice
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground white pepper
Pastry:
1 3/4 cups unbleached flour
1 cup whole wheat pastry flour
2 teaspoons turmeric
1/2 teaspoon fine sea salt
3/4 cup chilled coconut oil
2 teaspoons apple cider vinegar
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons ice water
For the filling: In a medium-size saute pan over medium-low heat, combine the
coconut oil, the onion cinnamon, allspice, cumin, red pepper flakes, cayenne, and
1/2 teaspoon of salt. Saute, stirring occasionally, for 8 to 10 minutes, or until the
vegetables are caramelized. Add the garlic and cook for an additional 2 minutes. Stir
in the coconut milk, carrots, and potatoes, reduce the heat to low, cover, and cook
until the carrots and potatoes are tender, 10 to 12 minutes. Stir in the green peas,
corn, cabbage, thyme, and lemon juice, cover, and cook for 3 minutes more. Season
with additional salt and the white pepper (or to taste) and set aside to allow the
flavors to marry.

For the pastry: Combine 1 1/2 cups of the white flour with the pastry flour,
turmeric, and salt in a large bowl and mix well. Set the remaining 1/4 cup white flour
aside. Add the coconut butter to the flour mixture and rub with your fingertip until
the mixture resembles fine sand, about 10 minutes (hs note: I've also make this
dough by pulsing ingredients in a food processor with good results).
Combine the vinegar and water and mix well. Then, without overworking the dough,
add the vinegar mixture by the tablespoon, while stirring, just until the dough comes
away from the sides of the bowl and begins to coalesce. Squeeze into a tight ball,
flatten, cover in plastic wrap, and refrigerate for at least 1 hour.
Preheat the oven to 350F and remove the dough from the refrigerator.
With the reserved flour, lightly dust a clean surface, roll out the dough until it is
about 1/8 inch thick. Cut six 6-inch circles from the dough (you can use a bowl).
Spoon 2 heaping tablespoons of the filling onto the center of one side of each circle,
leaving about a 1/8-inch border. Fold the other half over to make a half-moon, press
to seal, and make ridges around the edge using a fork. (hs note: if your dough is at all
on the dry side you may need to run wet fingers around the edge of the circles to help
get a good seal).
Transfer the patties to a parchment-lined baking sheet and bake until golden brown,
about 35 minutes. Serve immediately with some hot sauce.
Makes six big patties, or a couple dozen smaller ones.
Reprinted with permission from Vegan Soul Kitchen: Fresh, Healthy, and Creative
African­American Cuisine by Bryant Terry. (Da Capo Press, March, 2009)

101 Cookbooks http://www.101cookbooks.com/

