MATCHA GREEN SMOOTHIE BOWL
 
 

Prep time

Total time

5 mins

5 mins

Quick, 5-ingredient green smoothie bowl infused with matcha
green tea powder! Creamy, naturally sweet, and just as healthy as
it is delicious!
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Breakfast, Smoothie
Cuisine: Vegan, Gluten Free
Serves: 2

Ingredients
SMOOTHIE
2 peeled, sliced and frozen ripe bananas (~120 g each)
optional: 1/4 cup (41 g) chopped ripe pineapple (frozen is best)
3/4 - 1 cup (180-240 ml) light coconut milk (canned or carton)
2 tsp matcha green tea powder (I like this brand)
1 heaping cup (35 g) organic spinach or kale (I like to freeze mine to make the smoothie colder!)
TOPPINGS optional
Fresh Berries
Coconut flake
Banana slices
Chia Seeds
Slivered roasted almonds

Instructions
1. Add frozen banana slices, pineapple (optional), 3/4 cup (180 ml) coconut milk, matcha powder, and
spinach to a blender and blend on high until creamy and smooth.
2. Add only as much coconut milk as you need to help it blend. In my opinion, you want this smoothie
somewhere between scoopable and drinkable. Thin with water instead of coconut milk to save on calories,
if desired.
3. Taste and adjust flavor as needed, adding more banana (or a touch of maple syrup or stevia) for sweetness,
matcha for more intense green tea flavor, or coconut milk for creaminess (though adding more matcha
powder adds more caffeine, so use your best discretion). Pineapple will add a little tart/tang, so add more
if desired.
4. Divide between two serving bowls and top with desired toppings (optional). I went with fresh raspberries,
chia seeds, and coconut flake. Bananas would make a delicious garnish as well.

5. Best when fresh, though leftovers keep well sealed in the refrigerator up to 24 hours.

Notes
*For a full review of available matcha powders, check out this fantastic article from Lunch Box Bunch!

Nutrition Information
Serving size: 1 smoothie bowl (of 2)
g

Sugar: 15.2 g

Sodium: 98 mg

Calories: 175
Fiber: 5 g

Fat: 5 g

Saturated fat: 4.4 g

Carbohydrates: 34.8

Protein: 2.9 g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/matcha-greensmoothie-bowl/

