MEDITERRANEAN LENTIL DIP
 
Prep time

Cook time

Total time

10 mins

20 mins

30 mins

 

Creamy, Mediterranean-inspired Lentil dip with sautéed garlic and
shallots, and a 2-minute garlic-dill sauce. A protein-packed, vegan
and gluten free appetizer or side dish.
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Dip, Appetizer
Cuisine: Vegan, Gluten Free, Mediterranean
Serves: 6-8

Ingredients
LENTILS
1 cup (192 g) dry green lentils, well rinsed, pebbles/debris removed
2 cups (480 ml) water
Sea salt and black pepper to taste (~1/4 tsp each)
1 tsp maple syrup
1 tsp lemon juice
2 tsp olive oil
SHALLOT + GARLIC
1 Tbsp (15 ml) olive oil
2 shallots, thinly sliced (~40 g)
2 large cloves garlic, minced (1.5 Tbsp, 9 g)
SAUCE
1/3 cup (80 g) hummus
3 Tbsp (45 g) tahini
3 Tbsp (~10 g) fresh dill, chopped (or 2 tsp dried)
1/2 tsp maple syrup
2 Tbsp (30 ml) lemon juice (~1 lemon)
Water to thin
FOR SERVING / GARNISH optional
Fresh chopped parsley
Pita chips* or crackers
Vegetables
Chopped kalamata olives

Instructions

1. Add lentils and water to a saucepan and bring to a rolling boil over medium high heat. Then reduce heat
to medium/medium-low, or until a mild simmer is achieved.
2. Cook for 20-30 minutes, or until most liquid is absorbed and the lentils are tender and not mushy, or 'al
dente.' (Mine only took about 18 minutes.)
3. Strain to remove any remaining water, then return lentils to saucepan off heat. Season with salt and
pepper, maple syrup, lemon juice, and olive oil. Stir to coat. Sample and adjust seasonings as needed. You
want them to be flavorful on their own, and not bland, so don't be shy.
4. While lentils are cooking, heat a skillet over medium heat. Once hot, add olive oil and shallots and stir.
Cook for 2-3 minutes, or until slightly softened. Then add garlic and cook for 1-2 minutes more, or until
just lightly golden brown. Remove from heat but leave in skillet.
5. To prepare sauce, add hummus, tahini, dill, maple syrup, and lemon juice to a mixing bowl and whisk to
combine. Then thin with hot water until slightly thick but pourable (see photo). Taste and adjust
seasonings as needed.
6. Add cooked, seasoned lentils to the skillet with the garlic and shallot. Add sauce and stir to combine.
7. Serve immediately, garnished with fresh parsley or dill, pita chips or crackers, or vegetables (optional).
Best when fresh, though leftovers keep stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.
8. While this makes a great appetizer or snack dip, it would also be delicious over a baked sweet potato or
salad for more of a meal.

Notes
*To make your own pita chips, slice 2-3 pieces of pita into triangles and brush or spray both sides with
grapeseed or coconut oil. Lightly season with sea salt and garlic powder and toss. Then arrange on a baking
sheet in a single layer and toast on each side for 3-5 minutes in a 400 degree F (204 C) oven (or until golden
brown and firm to the touch). This can be done while the lentils are cooking to save time!
*For more tips on cooking lentils, see this helpful article from The Kitchn.
*Nutrition information is a rough estimate for 1 of 6 (1/3 cup) servings without any additional toppings or sides.

Nutrition Information
Serving size: 1/6th of recipe (~1/3 cup)
Carbohydrates: 25.9 g

Sugar: 1.9 g

Calories: 222
Sodium: 160 mg

Fat: 9.2 g

Saturated fat: 1.3 g

Fiber: 11.6 g

Protein: 10.9 g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/mediterraneanlentil-dip/

