VEGAN PESTO PARMESAN BREADSTICKS
 
 

Prep time

Cook time

Total time

20 mins

12 mins

32 mins

Simple vegan pesto breadsticks topped with vegan parmesan
cheese. Wholesome, dairy-free ingredients that mimic the flavor
of traditional breadsticks perfectly.
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Appetizer
Cuisine: Vegan
Serves: 4-6

Ingredients
1 (~2 1/4 tsp) packet active dry yeast
1 Tbsp cane sugar (or granulated – you could also sub maple syrup, or honey if not vegan)
2 Tbsp olive oil
1 tsp sea salt
2 1/2 – 3 cups unbleached all purpose flour or whole wheat pastry flour (I use a mix of the two)
3 Tbsp Vegan-friendly Basil Pesto (my recipe below)
3-4 Tbsp Vegan Parmesan
For the Vegan Pesto:
2 cups (tightly packed) fresh basil, rinsed and thoroughly dried
1/3 cup raw walnuts or pine nuts
1/2 cup extra virgin olive oil
4 large cloves garlic, chopped
Healthy pinch each (~1/4 tsp) sea salt and black pepper
3 Tbsp vegan parmesan cheese (sub 2 Tbsp nutritional yeast, or omit)
1 Tbsp lemon juice

Instructions
1. To make the pesto, add all ingredients to a food processor and mix until combined, leaving a little texture.
Taste and adjust seasonings as needed. Store covered in the fridge for up to a couple weeks, though best
when fresh. Freeze for longer term storage.
2. For the breadsticks, add 1 cup warm water – 110 degrees, or about the temp of bath water – to a large
mixing bowl. Make sure it’s not too hot or it will kill the yeast. Sprinkle on yeast and let stand until foamy,
about 5 minutes.
3. Add the sugar, oil, salt and stir. Using a wooden spoon, slowly add the flour and mix until a dough ball
forms. You may not be able to add all 3 cups of flour, so add a little at a time until it won’t accept anymore.

You will likely add in more while kneading.
4. Transfer dough to a lightly floured surface and knead by hand for 30 seconds to 1 inure, or until a smooth
ball comes together.
5. Wipe out your mixing bowl and add 1 Tbsp olive oil. Add dough back in, flipping a couple times to cover
with oil, leaving the seam side down. Cover with plastic wrap and set aside in a warm place for about an
hour. The dough should double in size (see photo).
6. Cut the dough in half. Reserve one half for later use. Will freeze for up to 3 months, or stay in the fridge
for a few days.
7. Preheat oven to 450 degrees F.
8. On a floured surface, roll the remaining half of the dough out into a rectangle about 1/4 inch thick.
Carefully transfer to a parchment lined baking sheet, reforming it into a rectangle.
9. Leaving the edges bare, generously brush with vegan pesto and top with an even layer of vegan parmesan
cheese. You could also add a handful of vegan mozzarella if you wish, such as Daiya shreds. In place of the
pesto, you could also sub red sauce.
10. Bake in a 450 degree oven for 11 – 13 minutes or until the crust and cheese are golden brown. Slice and
serve immediately.

Notes
* To make these freezer-friendly for future use, par-bake the whole batch for 5 minutes, slice, cool and store in
a freezer-safe bag or container. Pull out and bake on a baking sheet in a 450 degree oven until fluffy and golden
brown.
* Nutrition information reflects 1 of 12 breadsticks
* Basic dough recipe from Food Republic
* Pesto adapted from Food 52

Nutrition Information
Serving size: 1 breadstick
Sodium: 180mg

Calories: 86

Fat: 2.5g

Carbohydrates: 13g

Sugar: 1g

Protein: 2.4g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/vegan-pestoparmesan-breadsticks/

