12/10/2016

Foxes Love Lemons Pumpkin-Brie Quesadillas - Foxes Love Lemons

I was mad. So, so mad. I mean, I’d been mad at my husband before (and a few times since then). But this time, it was about
food. And I was very mad.
You see, when we were dating, and after we were ﬁrst married, we made very simple dinners. We had lots of tacos, simple
chopped salads and sloppy joes (and these are all still considered excellent dinners in our household!) I was also the proud
owner of a new panini pan, so there were lots of pressed sandwiches.
One of my favorite panini to make was a combination of sliced deli ham, raspberry preserves, and brie cheese on crusty
bread. It sounds like a weird combo on paper screen, but it was soooo good. The ham was a bit salty, which was balanced by
the sweet preserves. And of course, the gooey, pungent brie was the icing on the cake.
I made these sandwiches all the freakin’ time for a long while. Not only did I love the ﬂavor, but they were fast and cheap!
Somewhere along the way, these panini sort of got phased out of our normal dinner repertoire. Other things worked their
way in, and these sandwiches were lost in the shuﬄe.

Year later, I remembered them and told Jeff that I was thinking of making them again. He whisper-muttered:
“Um, I don’t really like brie.”
There was yelling. There were nearly tears. There was disbelief, because brie is awesome. There was disappointment.
Mostly, I was just sad that I fed him nearly a hundred of these sandwiches. He so didn’t want to hurt my feelings, that he
just suffered and ate them. I mean, I can’t really complain about having such a sweet husband, but let’s just say I’m happy
he’s more honest with me about my cooking now. And that makes me happier than those sandwiches made me (which was
pretty happy!).
Nowadays, I still buy brie once in awhile, and eat it in private, at lunchtime. Needless to say, these pumpkin-brie quesadillas
were all for me. A little autumn-themed brie treat!

http://foxeslovelemons.com/pumpkin-brie-quesadillas/print/

1/3

12/10/2016

Foxes Love Lemons Pumpkin-Brie Quesadillas - Foxes Love Lemons

PUMPKIN-BRIE QUESADILLAS
YIELD: 4 servings

PREP TIME: 5 minutes

COOK TIME: 6 minutes

INGREDIENTS:
1-3/4 cups canned pure pumpkin
1 teaspoon chili powder
1 teaspoon minced fresh sage
1/4 teaspoon cayenne
Nonstick cooking spray
8 small ﬂour tortillas
5 ounces brie cheese, thinly sliced

DIRECTIONS:
1. In small bowl, stir together pumpkin, chili powder, sage and cayenne.

http://foxeslovelemons.com/pumpkin-brie-quesadillas/print/

2/3

12/10/2016

Foxes Love Lemons Pumpkin-Brie Quesadillas - Foxes Love Lemons

2. Heat griddle over medium heat; spray with cooking spray. Place 4 tortillas on griddle and top each with 1/4 of the
pumpkin mixture, 1/4 of the cheese and a second tortilla. Cook 4 to 6 minutes or until tortillas are golden and
cheese melts, turning quesadillas halfway through cooking. Cut each into quarters and serve warm.
This recipe originally appeared here on the NatureBox blog.

Making one of my recipes? Please let me know by sharing a photo on my Facebook page, or uploading to Instagram or
Twitter with the tag #foxeslovelemons. It would make my day!

This delicious recipe brought to you by FOXES LOVE LEMONS
http://foxeslovelemons.com/pumpkin-brie-quesadillas/

http://foxeslovelemons.com/pumpkin-brie-quesadillas/print/

3/3

