ROASTED JALAPENO HUMMUS
 
 

Prep time

Cook time

Total time

10 mins

20 mins

30 mins

Super creamy roasted jalapeno hummus with simple, wholesome
ingredients. Creamy, savory and subtly spiced.
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Appetizer, Dip
Cuisine: Vegan, Gluten Free
Serves: 8 (2 cups total)

Ingredients
HUMMUS
2-3 jalapeños (depending on preferred level of spice)
 4-5 cloves garlic, skin on
1 15-ounce can chickpeas, slightly drained
1/2 ripe avocado (optional)
1/4 cup tahini
1 lemon + 1 lime, juiced  (or just use two of the same fruit)
1 tsp cumin
3/4 - 1 tsp sea salt
3-4 Tbsp olive or avocado oil
 OPTIONAL: Handful fresh cilantro
ROASTED PEPITAS (optional)
1/2 cup raw pumpkin seeds
1 Tbsp oil
Pinch each salt, pepper and cumin

Instructions
1. Preheat oven to 425 degrees.
2. Place garlic cloves with skin still on and whole jalapeños on a baking sheet. Drizzle garlic cloves with a
small amount of oil of choice (avocado or olive are best) and roast for 15-18 minutes, flipping jalapeños
once to ensure even roasting. If the garlic cloves get too roasty looking, take them out.
3. Once done, remove from oven and set garlic aside.
4. Wrap jalapeños in foil to steam for a few minutes. Then carefully peel away skin and remove seeds. Be
sure to wash your hands afterwards!
5. To a blender or food processor, add slightly drained chickpeas, oil, cilantro, avocado, salt, cumin, lime,
lemon, roasted jalapeños (start with one and work your way up to desired spice level), tahini and peeled

garlic cloves (you should be able to peel away the skin or just squeeze the garlic out).
6. Blend until creamy and smooth, scraping down sides as needed. Taste and adjust seasonings as desired. (I
used two medium jalapeños and it was plenty spicy.)
7. To prepare toasted pumpkin seeds, preheat oven to 350 degrees F and toss 1/2 cup seeds in 1 Tbsp
avocado or olive oil + a pinch each salt, pepper and cumin.
8. Spread on a baking sheet and roast for 8-12 minutes. Add to top of hummus, along with another drizzle of
olive oil (optional) and fresh cilantro.
9. Serve hummus with veggies, tortilla chips or pita. Leftovers keep well in the fridge, covered for up to 1
week, though best when fresh.

Notes
*Nutrition information is a rough estimate for 1 quarter-cup serving. Recipes yields roughly 8 quarter-cup
servings in total.

Nutrition Information
Serving size: 1/4 cup
Sugar: .6g

Calories: 146

Sodium: 345mg

Fat: 10g

Fiber: 3.4g

Saturated fat: 1.7g

Carbohydrates: 11g

Protein: 4.4g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/roasted-jalapenohummus/

