Spinach Mushroom Quiche Recipe
For the crust:
1/2 cup rolled oats
3 tablespoons sesame seeds
1 cup whole wheat pastry flour or whole spelt flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon sea salt
1/2 teaspoon freshly milled black pepper
1/3 cup unflavored soy milk or water
1/3 cup light sesame oil or pure olive oil plus more for brushing the
pan
For the filling:
7 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
1 cup finely diced onion
10 ounces white button mushrooms, thinly sliced
2 tablespoons dry white wine or water
1 1/2 teaspoons coarse sea salt
3 garlic cloves, slice crosswise into 1/8-inch rounds
10 to 12 fresh basil leaves, chopped
1/2 teaspoon finely chopped fresh thyme leaves
Pinch hot red pepper flakes
1 pound firm tofu, rinsed and patted dry
2 tablespoons freshly squeezed lemon juice
1 tablespoon rice vinegar
2 pounds fresh spinach
Paprika for dusting
1. Preheat the oven to 350.
2. To make the crust, spread the oats and sesame seeds on a baking sheet and toast
in the oven for 8 minutes.
3. Transfer the toasted oats and sesame seeds to the bowl of a food processor fitted
with a metal blade. Add the flour, baking powder, salt, and pepper, and process until
the oats are finely ground.
4. In a medium bowl, whisk together the soy milk and oil. Using a wooden spoon,
mix in the dry ingredients to form a dough.
5. Lightly brush a 9-inch or 10-inch tart pan with oil. Put the dough in the tart pan.
Place a piece of plastic wrap on the dough and press down evenly, making sure to fill
in the fluted sides of the pan. Trim the tart of any excess dough and refrigerate while
you make the filling.
6. To make the filling, in a wide saute pan over medium heat, warm 2 tablespoons of
the oil. Add the onion and mushroom, raise the heat to high, and saute for 10 to 12
minutes, stirring and shaking the pan until the vegetables are caramelized. Add the

wine and scrape up any brown bits from the bottom of the pan with a wooden spoon.
Season with 1/2 teaspoon of the salt and continue to cook until dry. Using a rubber
spatula, scrape the vegetables into a mixing bowl and set aside.
7. In a small saucepan over medium heat, warm the remaining 5 tablespoons of oil.
Add the garlic, basil, thyme, and red pepper flakes. Simmer gently for 3 to 4 minutes
or until the garlic is golden. Do not let the garlic brown or it will become bitter. With
a rubber spatula, scrape the garlic oil into the bowl of a food processor.
8. Crumble the tofu into the bowl of the food processor. Add the lemon juice,
vinegar, and remaining 1 teaspoon of salt and puree until smooth. With a rubber
spatula, scrape the puree into the mushroom-onion mixture.
9. Remove and discard the tough stems of the spinach. Wash the leaves in a large
bowl with several changes of cold water. Transfer the spinach to a pot and cooke,
covered, over high heat for several minutes, just until wilted. Drain in a colander and
rinse under cold water to arrest the cooking. Drain well and squeeze dry. Transfer
the spinach to a cutting board and chop fine. Add the spinach to the rest of the filling
and stir well to combine.
10. Fill the tart shell with the tofu and vegetable mixture and smooth the top with the
back of a spoon. Dust with Paprika. Bake for 45 to 50 minutes,until firm.
11.Let the tart cool for 8 to 10 minutes before slicing and serving.
Yield: 4 to 6 servings
From: Peter Berley's The Modern Vegetarian, Regan Books (October 1, 2000) ­
reprinted with Permission

101 Cookbooks http://www.101cookbooks.com/

