SWEET POTATO BLACK BEAN BURGER
 
 

Prep time

Cook time

Total time

15 mins

1 hour 15 mins

1 hour 30 mins

Amazing sweet potato black bean burgers bulked up with brown
rice and seasoned with smoky cumin and paprika. Sweet, tender,
flavorful and so healthy and delicious.
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Main, Burger
Cuisine: Vegan, Gluten Free
Serves: 12

Ingredients
2 cups mashed sweet potato (~2 large sweet potatoes - organic when possible)
1 cup cooked salted black beans, rinsed and well drained (if unsalted, add more salt to the burgers)
1 - 1 1/2 cups cooked brown rice* (or sub cooked quinoa with varied results)
1/2 cup walnut or pecan meal (or very finely chopped)
1/2 cup finely diced green onion
2 1/2 tsp ground cumin
1 tsp smoked paprika
1/4 tsp each salt and pepper (to taste)
1/4 tsp chipotle powder (optional)
1 Tbsp brown sugar (optional | for added sweetness)
FOR SERVING
Sliced avocado
Sprouts, lettuce or parsley
Sliced onion
Whiskey BBQ Ketchup

Instructions
1. Preheat oven to 400 degrees and cut sweet potatoes in half. Rub with olive oil and place face down on a
foil-lined baking sheet. Bake sweet potatoes until soft and tender to the touch - about 30 minutes - set
aside. Reduce oven heat to 375 degrees F.
2. While potatoes are baking, cook rice or quinoa (see notes for instructions).
3. Add black beans to a mixing bowl and mash half of them for texture. Then add sweet potato and lightly
mash, then 1 cup rice, green onion, nut meal and spices. Mix to combine. Taste and adjust seasonings as
needed. Add more rice or nut meal if the mixture feels too wet. It should be very moist but moldable.
4. Lightly grease a baking sheet and line a 1/4 cup measuring cup with plastic wrap.

5. Fill the lined measuring cup with sweet potato mixture. Scrape down to pack, then lift out and transfer to
the baking sheet and gently press down to mash. The thinner you press them, the faster they’ll cook, but
no need to go too far. Just a gentle press will do.
6. Bake burgers for a total 30-45 minutes, carefully flipping 20 minutes in to ensure even cooking. The longer
you bake them the firmer and drier they will get - up to preference. I went for around the 35 minute
mark.
7. Serve on slider buns (double stack for more bulk) or atop a salad with sliced avocado, red onion, greens,
and ketchup or salsa.
8. Store leftovers covered in the fridge for up to a few days. Freeze for longer term storage.

Notes
* To cook rice: bring 2 cups water to a boil, then add 1 cup very well-rinsed rice, reduce heat to simmer, cover
and cook for about 30 minutes or until fluffy and tender. You will have leftovers.
* For quinoa: rinse 1 cup quinoa and add to a saucepan over medium heat. Sauté in a bit of olive oil for 1-2
minutes, then add 2 cups water and bring to a boil. Reduce heat to simmer, cover and continue cooking for
about 15 minutes, or until tender and fluffy and the water is absorbed.
*Inspired by the Black Bean Burger at Beer Kitchen

Nutrition Information
Serving size: 1 burger pattie
Sodium: 135mg

Fiber: 3.3g

Calories: 172

Fat: 3.8g

Carbohydrates: 30g

Sugar: 1.2g

Protein: 4.7g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/sweet-potato-blackbean-burger/

