VEGAN ZUCCHINI GRATIN
 
 

Prep time

Cook time

Total time

20 mins

30 mins

50 mins

10-ingredient vegan, gluten free gratin loaded with zucchini,
asparagus and onion. So easy, quick and delicious.
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Entree, Side Dish
Cuisine: Vegan, Gluten Free
Serves: 4-6

Ingredients
For the Gratin:
2 medium zucchini squash, sliced in thin rounds (I used 1 zucchini, 1 yellow)
1 small bundle asparagus
1/2 yellow or white onion, cut into thin rings
Sea salt and black pepper
3/4-1 cup vegan Parmesan cheese
2.5 Tbsp olive oil
1/4 tsp garlic powder
For the Vegan Parmesan Cheese:
3/4 cup raw cashews
3 Tbsp nutritional yeast
3/4 tsp salt
1/4 tsp garlic powder

Instructions
1. Prepare vegan parmesan cheese by whirling all ingredients together in a food processor or blender until a
fine meal or powder is formed. Don’t over-process or it will begin to get clumpy. Set aside. Will keep
covered in the fridge for about a month.
2. In a 10-inch cast iron or oven safe skillet, sauté onion in .5 Tbsp olive oil over medium-low heat until soft
– about 10 minutes – seasoning with a pinch of sea salt and black pepper. Set aside.
3. Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
4. Slice squash into very thin slices, about 1/8th-inch thick (see photo). Use mandolin if you have one, or just
a sharp knife.
5. Cup off the top 2-3 inches of the asparagus. That’s the only part you’ll be using. Save the rest for another
dish. Carefully split the top portion in half so it nestles into the gratin better (optional).

6. Add asparagus and squash to a mixing bowl and top with remaining 2 Tbsp olive oil, 3/4 tsp salt, pinch of
black pepper, 1/4 tsp garlic powder (optional), and 2 Tbsp of the vegan parmesan cheese. Toss to coat.
7. Spread the slightly cooled onions around in the bottom of the skillet to create an even base. Top with
squash, layering green and yellow as you go (if you did two colors). It doesn’t have to be perfect. Just start
on the outside and work your way in, keeping them in line as much as possible. Once the squash is
arranged, tuck pieces of the asparagus into the layers in a circular motion (see photo).
8. Top with an even layer of the vegan parmesan cheese (~3/4 cup) and bake at 400 degrees F for 30 minutes.
Then broil on high for the last 1-2 minutes to toast up the top (optional, but recommended). Watch closely
as it can burn quickly. Let rest for a few minutes before serving.
9. This makes an excellent side dish, brunch item, or light lunch or dinner when accompanied with a
protein, such as hummus or chickpea salad, or scrambled or fried eggs if not vegan. Reheats well in the
microwave or oven.

Notes
*Parmesan recipe adapted from Veggieful

Nutrition Information
Serving size: 1/5th of dish
Sugar: 2.8g

Calories: 157

Sodium: 587mg

Fiber: 2.4g

Fat: 12g

Saturated fat: 2g

Carbohydrates: 8.8g

Protein: 3.5g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/vegan-zucchinigratin/

