Printed via Vegan Miam

Vegan BBQ Tofu Burger
Yield: 2 burgers

Ingredients
Two hamburger buns
Toasted sesame oil for toasting the buns
½ cup wild arugula or favorite leafy greens
Sriracha for garnish
vegan homemade gochujang mayo
Asian-style pickled cucumbers
BBQ Tofu
Oil spray
one (16-ounce) ﬁrm tofu, pressed overnight, slice in half (2 tofu slabs)
BBQ Rub:
1 tablespoon dry mustard
1 tablespoon onion powder
1 tablespoon smoked paprika
1½ teaspoon garlic powder
¼ teaspoon ground cumin
¼ teaspoon ground pepper
BBQ Sauce
¼ cup and 2 tablespoons organic ketchup
2 tablespoons ﬁnely minced sweet onions
2 ½ tablespoons coconut sugar
2 tablespoons seasoned rice vinegar
1 clove garlic, minced
½ teaspoon Barbecue Rub (see recipe above)
pinch of ground cayenne
pinch of ground black pepper

Method
Put all the “BBQ Rub” ingredients (dry mustard, onion powder, smoked paprika, garlic powder, ground cumin
and ground pepper) in a small bowl and stir to combine. This is your “BBQ Rub”, set it aside.
Put all the “BBQ Sauce” ingredients (ketchup, minced onions, dark brown sugar, seasoned rice vinegar, garlic,
BBQ Rub mixture, ground cayenne and ground pepper) in a medium saucepan and stir to combine. Bring to boil
over medium-high heat. Decrease the heat to low and simmer uncovered, stirring occasionally, for 15 minutes.
Let the sauce cool a bit. Using a hand-held immersion blender, puree the sauce in your cooking pot.
Preheat oven to 350°F. Rub the tofu slabs all over with the remaining “BBQ Rub.” Apply a thin layer of oil (or
use a non-stick spray) to condition the surface of the pan, when needed. Bake for about 25-30 minutes until
slightly browned and ﬂipping both sides halfway.

In a large saucepan at medium heat, warm up the “BBQ Sauce”. Quickly coat both sides of tofu and stirringly
occasionally until desired temperature is reached (about 5-8 minutes). Do this for both tofu slabs. Drizzle the
sauce over the tofu in the end. Optional: You can press the tofu slabs in a panini grill quickly for the creative grill
marks.
Toast your hamburger buns onto the griddle pan (at medium-high heat) with toasted sesame oil until slightly
golden brown. Spread one of the buns with gochujang mayo. Add the BBQ tofu, greens and a bit of Sriracha.
Add whatever ﬁlling you like! Serve and enjoy!
Notes
Adapted from ‘Grills Gone Vegan‘ by Tamasin Noyes.
Recipes that belong to Vegan Miam or the cookbook author cannot be duplicated on social networks or any
other pages unless with a written permission by Vegan Miam, the cookbook author and/or the cookbook’s
Publisher. For more information, e-mail us at hello@veganmiam.com.

