BUTTERNUT SQUASH VEGGIE PIZZA
 
Prep time

Cook time

Total time

15 mins

45 mins

1 hour

 

10-ingredient pizza that's perfect for late summer and fall.
Butternut squash sauce adds a colorful, savory-sweet base, while
broccolini, chickpeas, and onion add texture, fiber, and protein. A
healthy, plant-based meal the whole family will enjoy.
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Entree
Cuisine: Vegan Pizza
Serves: 8 slices

Ingredients
SAUCE
3 cups (420 g) butternut squash, cubed*
3 cloves garlic, whole, skin removed
2 Tbsp (15 ml) olive oil, divided
Pinch sea salt + black pepper
1 Tbsp (15 ml) maple syrup
PIZZA
1 1/2 cups broccolini, chopped, large stems removed
1/2 cup red onion, chopped
optional: 1/2 cup cooked chickpeas, rinsed and thoroughly dried
Pinch sea salt + black pepper
1 tsp dried oregano
6 ounces store-bought pizza dough (I Love Trader Joe’s Garlic & Herb or Whole Wheat | or this gluten free
recipe)
1 cup Butternut Squash Sauce (recipe above)
1/2 cup vegan parmesan cheese or store-bought vegan mozzarella cheese*
FOR SERVING optional
Vegan parmesan cheese
Red pepper flakes

Instructions
1. Preheat oven to 400 degrees F and position a rack in the middle of the oven.

2. Add cubed butternut squash and peeled garlic cloves to a baking sheet and drizzle with 1 Tbsp olive oil
and a pinch each salt and pepper. Toss to combine.
3. Bake for 15-20 minutes, or until all squash is fork tender.
4. Transfer squash and garlic to a blender or food processor with remaining 1 Tbsp olive oil and maple
syrup. Purée until creamy and smooth, adding more olive oil or a touch of water if it's too thick. The
consistency should be creamy and spreadable (not pourable).
5. Taste and adjust seasonings as needed. Set aside.
6. Heat a large skillet over medium heat. Once hot, add 1 tsp oil, broccolini, onion, chickpeas (optional), salt
and pepper, and oregano. Sauté for 2-3 minutes, stirring frequently. Set aside.
7. Increase oven heat to 425 degrees F.
8. Roll out pizza dough into an even circle and transfer to a parchment-lined round baking sheet (or
similarly-shaped object).
9. Top with ~ 1 cup sauce (you will have leftover sauce, which you can reserve for other pizzas), veggies, and
chickpeas. Sprinkle on a bit more oregano and vegan parmesan cheese (or vegan mozzarella).
10. Transfer pizza to the oven, laying the pizza and parchment paper directly on oven rack (slide the baking
sheet off so it can bake directly on the rack for a crispier crust). Bake for 13-18 minutes, or until crust
edges are golden brown.
11. Slice and serve with remaining parmesan cheese, dried oregano, and red pepper flakes (optional).
Leftovers keep well for 2-3 days, though best when fresh.

Notes
*The best way to cube butternut squash is to start with a large, very sharp knife, cutting off the top and bottom
ends. Then cut in half where the small, cylinder shape and round, bulb-shape meet. Use knife to carefully
remove skin. Then remove any seeds with spoon or ice cream scoop. Cut into small cubes and proceed with
recipe as directed.
*For vegan mozzarella cheese, I love Daiya brand.

Nutrition Information
Serving size: 1 slice (of 8)
Sugar: 4.1 g

Calories: 171

Sodium: 199 mg

Fat: 6.4 g

Fiber: 2.2 g

Saturated fat: 1.1 g

Carbohydrates: 24 g

Protein: 6.2 g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/butternut-squashveggie-pizza/

