BLENDED RED SALSA
 
Prep time

Cook time

Total time

10 mins

20 mins

30 mins

 

Simple blended red salsa in just 30 minutes! Carrots add natural
sweetness and a pop of color, while chipotle peppers bring a touch
of heat.
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Dip, Appetizer
Cuisine: Mexican, Vegan
Serves: ~2 1/2 cups

Ingredients
1 Tbsp avocado or grape seed oil (or any neutral oil with a high smoke point)
1/2 white onion, diced
3 cloves garlic, minced
1 cup (140 g) diced carrots (or sub orange or yellow bell pepper!)
Pinch each salt + pepper (plus more to taste)
1 14.5 ounce (411 g) can diced tomatoes (no salt added)
1/2 tsp cumin
1/2 tsp chili powder
1 chipotle pepper in adobo sauce (add 1/2 tsp adobo sauce for more heat!)*
1/3 cup vegetable stock (or water)
1-2 Tbsp sweetener of choice (coconut sugar or maple syrup | optional)
1 lime, juiced

Instructions
1. Heat a large skillet (cast iron is preferable) over medium heat and prep onion, garlic and carrot.
2. Once hot, add oil, onion, garlic, carrot and season with a healthy pinch each salt and pepper.
3. Stir to coat and cover - cook for 4 minutes, stirring occasionally.
4. Remove cover and add diced tomatoes, cumin, chili powder and a healthy pinch more salt and pepper.
Stir, reduce heat to low, and simmer for 2-3 minutes, stirring occasionally.
5. Transfer mixture to a food processor or high speed blender and add chipotle pepper, vegetable stock,
sweetener, and lime juice. Blend until creamy and smooth. Taste and adjust seasonings as needed.
6. Serve warm, at room temperature, or - as I prefer it - refrigerated. Keeps in the fridge for at least 7-10
days.

Notes

*Nutrition information is a rough estimate for one of ten 1/4-cup servings.
*Chipotle peppers in adobo sauce can be found in the Mexican sections of most grocery stores, and virtually all
Mexican grocery stores. Look for a short can with a picture of dark red peppers!

Nutrition Information
Serving size: 1/4 cup
Sodium: 169mg

Calories: 25

Fiber: 1.1g

Fat: 0.3g

Saturated fat: 0g

Carbohydrates: 5.5g

Sugar: 3.3g

Protein: 0.8g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/chipotle-red-salsa/

