CREAMY THAI CARROT SOUP WITH BASIL
 
 

Prep time

Cook time

Total time

5 mins

25 mins

30 mins

Thai-inspired, 7 ingredient, 30-minute carrot soup that’s creamy,
vegan + gluten free, perfectly sweet and spicy and so delicious.
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Soup, Entree
Cuisine: Vegan, Gluten Free, Thai
Serves: 4

Ingredients
1/2 1 large yellow onion, chopped
3 cloves garlic, diced
1 pound carrots, scrubbed (or peeled) and chopped (~4 cups)
Salt and Pepper
2 cups Veggie Stock + 2 cups water
1/3 cup creamy or crunchy salted natural peanut butter (use less for a less intense PB flavor)
2 tsp chili garlic sauce (use less for less spice)
TOPPINGS: Fresh basil, cilantro, or mint; coconut milk; brown sugar or agave nectar (sub honey if
not vegan); Sriracha hot sauce
(NOT LISTED: Coconut or Olive Oil for sauteing)

Instructions
1. Heat a large pot over medium heat.
2. Dice onion and garlic. Add to pot with 1 Tbsp coconut or olive oil (or nonstick spray). Add carrots and
cook for 5 minutes.
3. Season with a healthy pinch each salt and pepper, then add veggie stock and 2 cups of water and stir.
4. Bring to a low boil, then reduce heat to a simmer. Cover and cook for 20 minutes, or until veggies are
tender (test by cutting a larger piece of carrot in half – it should cut with ease).
5. Transfer to a blender (or use an immersion blender) and blend until smooth and creamy. (Cover with a
towel in case your lid leaks any soup while blending.)
6. Add peanut butter and chili garlic sauce to the blender and blend to combine, using a ‘puree’ or ‘liquify’
setting if you have it.
7. Taste and adjust seasonings as needed. For a touch of added sweetness, add a Tbsp or so of brown sugar,
maple syrup or agave nectar (or honey if not vegan). Add more chili garlic sauce for more heat.
8. Serve immediately with fresh basil or herbs of choice. A drizzle of coconut milk will add a creamy, sweet
touch. Serve with sriracha for extra heat.

Nutrition Information
Serving size: 1 of 4 bowls
Sugar: 8g

Sodium: 239mg

Calories: 224
Fiber: 5.7g

Fat: 14.6g

Saturated fat: 2.2g

Carbohydrates: 19g

Protein: 7.1g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/creamy-thai-carrotsoup-with-basil/

