C R I S P Y V E G E TA B L E T O F U D U M P L I N G S
Crispy vegetable tofu dumplings are a simple Chinese recipe that is so fun to make! An irresistible vegetarian appetizer
dipped in your favorite sauce.
Course

Appetizer

Cuisine

Chinese

Servings

Prep Time

Cook Time

40

15

30

DUMPLINGS

MINUTES

MINUTES

INGREDIENTS
40 wonton wrappers square or round, (about 3.5 to 4 inches in size)
3 tablespoons vegetable oil divided
1 tablespoon ginger minced
1/2 cup yellow onion minced
2 cups shiitake mushrooms or brown mushrooms, chopped (about 7 ounces)
1 cup red cabbage nely shredded
1 cup carrots nely shredded, roughly chopped to smaller pieces
1 cup tofu diced, extra rm, ¼ inch cubes
1/2 cup green onions nely sliced
1/4 teaspoon black pepper freshly ground
1 teaspoon Sesame oil
2 tablespoons soy sauce or tamari

INSTRUCTIONS
Filling1. Heat a large wok or skillet over medium-high heat. Add 1 tablespoon oil and allow to heat, then add the ginger and
saute for 30 seconds. Insert the onions and stir-fry for about 2 minutes, until softened. Add the mushrooms and
cook for 2 minutes until tender and moisture has been removed. Add cabbage and carrots and cook 2 minutes,
until just tender. Add tofu and gently stir-fry for 1 minute. Turn o heat and add green onions, black pepper,
sesame oil, and soy sauce. Stir to combine, taste and season with more salt and pepper as needed. Transfer to a
bowl and allow to cool.
Assembly1. If you purchased square wonton wrappers, use a 3 ½ inch round cutter to cut out a circle shape in the wrapper.
Repeat with remaining wrapper. Keep the wrappers covered with a damp paper towel or plastic wrap to prevent
the wrappers from drying out on the edges.
2. Use a brush or your ngers to moisten the edges of one side of the wrapper lightly with water. Add about 2
teaspoons of lling to the wrapper. Fold the sides together a press to create a semi-circle shape, pressing out any
air and ensuring that it sticks together. Moisten the edges on both sides of the dumpling lightly with water. Create
about 5 to 6 pleats along the edges of the dumpling, folding and pressing from left to right. Repeat with remaining
wrappers and lling.

Cooking1. Heat a nonstick pan over medium-high heat. Add 1 tablespoon of oil and heat. Carefully add about 10 dumplings to
the pan (or what can t and not be overcrowded), and fry for 2 minutes until the bottoms are golden brown.
Reduce the heat to medium-low. Very carefully, slowly pour in ¼ cup water into the side of the pan. The oil may
splatter so do this slowly and do not hold on to the handle of the pan. Immediately cover (I used a pan similar in
size and covered as tightly as possible), and allow dumplings to steam until water has evaporated, about 3 minutes.
Remove the lid and turn up the heat to medium-high. Fry for 2 more minutes, until bottoms are brown and crisp.
Work in batches, adding another tablespoon of oil and ¼ cup water for each batch. Dip in your favorite sauce like
soy or chili.

RECIPE NOTES
1) Once you’ve grated the carrots, chop them up into smaller pieces so it’s easier to ll and pleat the dumpling.

This tasty recipe brought to you by JESSICA GAVIN
http://www.jessicagavin.com/crispy-vegetable-tofu-dumplings/

If you make this recipe, be sure to hashtag it #jessicagavin – I’d love to see what you cook!

