Curried Bean Salad Recipe
The key to cooking beans from scratch for a salad like this, is to cook them until
tender, but not until they are falling apart. Feel free to make the curry vinaigrette a
day or two in advance. If you like a creamier dressing, toss a big dollop of Greek
yogurt into the curried vinaigrette, taste, and go from there. I use black lentils here
because they hold their shape quite well, you definitely don't want to use a bean or
lentil that goes to mush.
3 cups cooked beans - I used equal amounts Pebble beans and
Mayacoba beans, but you could certainly use white beans, black beans,
black eyed beans, whatever - I bet edamame would be great in this
salad. And while I like to cook my beans from their dried state, this is a
forgiving salad and canned beans that have been well rinsed will work
too. You can serve this salad hot or at room temperature, whatever
your preference.
1 cup cooked black lentils*
1/2 medium red onion, thinly sliced into crescents
3/4 cup celery, chopped
1 clove garlic
1/2 teaspoon of fine-grain sea salt
1 1/2 teaspoons of your favorite curry powder
1-2 teaspoons freshly grated ginger (from 1-inch cube of fresh ginger,
peeled)
juice of 1/2 a lemon
1/3 cup olive oil
2 tablespoons cilantro, chopped
In a large bowl toss the beans, black lentils, red onion, and celery. Make the curry
vinaigrette by mashing the garlic clove with the salt into a thick paste. In a bowl or
jar whisk together this garlic paste, the curry powder, fresh ginger, lemon juice, and
olive oil. Whisk well, taste, and add adjust flavors/salt if needed. Pour about half of
the dressing over the beans and give it all a toss. Add more dressing a bit at a time
until it is to your liking. Taste, make sure the salad has enough salt or the the beans
will taste flat and the rest of the flavors won't pop. I like to serve this salad family
style in a big bowl or on a platter with a big spoon all sprinkled with cilantro.
Serves about 4 ­ 6 as a side.
*Wash and pick over the lentils. Place them in a large saucepan and cover with water
using 2-3x the quantity of lentils. Bring to a boil, scale back the heat a bit and
simmer for 15-20 minutes. Taste along the way, when done the lentils should be
tender but not splitting apart. Salt to taste at this point. Remove from heat and drain
any remaining liquid.

101 Cookbooks http://www.101cookbooks.com/

