12/10/2016

Grilled Mushrooms on Skewers

Grilled Mushroom Skewers
Prep time: 55 mins

Cook time: 6 mins

Total time: 1 hour 1 min

To keep the mushrooms from falling through the grates, I skewered them (everything is better on
a stick, or at least my 3-yr old thinks so).
Author: Natasha of NatashasKitchen.com
Skill Level: Easy
Cost To Make: $7-$8
Serving: 8-10 skewers

Ingredients
16 oz (1 lb) Baby Portabello Mushrooms (crimini or button work too)

For the marinade:
¼ cup olive oil
¼ cup lemon juice
small handful of parsley
1 tsp sugar
1 tsp salt
¼ tsp pepper
¼ tsp cayenne pepper
1-2 garlic cloves
1 Tbsp balsamic vinegar

What you will need:
10 (10-inch) bamboo/wood skewers

Instructions
1. Place 10 medium skewers into a baking dish and cover with water. It's important to soak the skewers for at least
15 minutes (more is better) or they will burn too quickly on the grill.
2. Place all of the marinade ingredients in a food processor and pulse several times until marinade is nearly smooth.
3. Rinse your mushrooms and pat dry. Cut each mushroom in half, so each piece has half of the mushroom stem.
4. Place the mushroom halves into a large gallon-size ziploc bag, or a medium bowl and pour in the marinade.
Shake the bag until all of the mushrooms are evenly coated in marinade. Refrigerate and marinate for 30-45
minutes.
5. Preheat your grill about 300˚F
6. Skewer the mushrooms snugly onto the bamboo/wooden skewers that have been soaking (no need to dry the
skewers). Skewering the mushrooms was a little annoying at ﬁrst until I got the hang of things. I've found that it's
easiest to skewer them by twisting them onto the stick. If you just push the stick through, it may cause the
mushroom to crack.
7. Place the skewered mushrooms on the hot grill for about 3 minutes per side, making sure the mushrooms do not
burn to the grill. The mushrooms are done when they are soft; as mushrooms should be :) Remove from the grill.
Cover with foil to keep them warm until ready to serve.
Copyright © 2015 Natasha's Kitchen
http://natashaskitchen.com/easyrecipe-print/20391-0/

1/1

