VEGAN JALAPENO POPPERS
 
 

Prep time

Cook time

Total time

10 mins

20 mins

30 mins

Vegan, gluten free baked jalapeno poppers with tons of flavor,
cheesiness and the perfect crispy top. Less than 10 ingredients and
30 minutes required.
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Appetizer
Cuisine: Vegan, Gluten Free
Serves: 6

Ingredients
3/4 cup raw cashews, soaked for 4-6 hours (or overnight), then drained
1/2 white or yellow onion, diced
2 cloves garlic, minced
2 Tbsp nutritional yeast
1 tsp cumin
3/4 cup veggie stock
1 4-ounce can green chilies (optional)
10 jalapeños, halved and seeds/stem removed
Olive oil
Optional: 1/2 cup crushed toasted tortilla chips, red pepper flake for garnish

Instructions
1. Preheat oven to 400 degrees and prep your jalapenos, splitting in half and removing the tops, then
spritzing or brushing them with a bit of olive oil. Place in rows facing up (see photo).
2. If you’re using crushed tortilla chips as a topper (recommended), toast them while prepping your cheese
sauce by spritzing them with olive oil and baking them in your 400 degree oven for 7-10 minutes or until
golden brown, watching closely as they can burn fast.
3. To a small saucepan over medium heat, add the onion and garlic with a bit of olive oil and cook until just
softened and fragrant – about 5 minutes. Set aside.
4. Add soaked cashews, garlic, onion, nutritional yeast, cumin, veggie stock and green chilies to a blender
and blend until creamy and smooth, using the “liquify” or “puree” option if you have it.
5. Spoon or pipe the cheese mixture into the jalapenos, generously filling. You’ll have leftovers, which you
can reserve for nachos or just dip. Top with crushed, toasted tortilla chip crumbs and bake for 15 minutes
or until the jalapenos are soft and the cheese has deepened in color.
6. Place the pan on the top rack and broil for the last minute or two for an even more intense color/flavor.

7. Serve immediately, sprinkling with a bit of red pepper flake for garnish (optional). Store leftovers covered
in the fridge for up to a few days, reheating in the microwave or a 350 degree oven until warmed through
(though best when fresh).

Notes
*Nutrition is a rough estimate for 1 of 20 poppers with a tortilla crumb topping (I also took into account about
3/4 of the cheese since you have quite a bit leftover for other uses).

Nutrition Information
Serving size: 1 popper
Sodium: 25mg

Calories: 68

Fiber: 2.5g

Fat: 3.7g

Saturated fat: 0.7g

Carbohydrates: 8g

Sugar: 3g

Protein: 2.2g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/vegan-jalapenopoppers/

