MEDITERRANEAN BAKED SWEET POTATOES
 
 

Prep time

Cook time

Total time

5 mins

25 mins

30 mins

Simple, 30 minute baked sweet potatoes topped with roasted
chickpeas, a simple garlic-herb sauce and a parsley-tomato salad.
Delicious, fresh, healthy, and naturally vegan and gluten free.
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Entree
Cuisine: Vegan, Gluten Free, Mediterranean
Serves: 4

Ingredients
4 medium sweet potatoes* (~140 g each)
1 15-ounce (425 g) can chickpeas, rinsed and drained
1/2 Tbsp olive oil
1/2 tsp each cumin, coriander, cinnamon, smoked (or regular) paprika
optional: Pinch of sea salt or lemon juice
GARLIC HERB SAUCE
1/4 cup (60 g) hummus (or tahini)
juice of 1/2 lemon (~1 Tbsp)
3/4 - 1 tsp dried dill (or sub 2-3 tsp fresh)
3 cloves garlic, minced (1 1/2 Tbsp or 9 g)
Water or unsweetened almond milk to thin
optional: Sea salt to taste (I didn’t need any)
TOPPINGS optional
1/4 cup (45 g) cherry tomatoes, diced
1/4 cup (15 g) chopped parsley, minced
2 Tbsp (30 ml) lemon juice
Chili garlic sauce

Instructions
1. Preheat oven to 400 degrees and line a large baking sheet with foil.
2. Rinse and scrub potatoes and cut in half length wise. This will speed cooking time. Otherwise leave whole
and bake longer (approximately double the time (45 min - 1 hour).
3. Toss rinsed and drained chickpeas with olive oil and spices and place on a foil-lined baking sheet.

4. Rub the sweet potatoes with a bit of olive oil and place face down on the same baking sheet (or another
baking sheet depending on size).
5. While the sweet potatoes and chickpeas are roasting, prepare your sauce by adding all ingredients to a
mixing bowl and whisking to combine, only adding enough water to almond milk to thin so it’s pourable.
Taste and adjust seasonings as needed. Add more garlic for more zing, salt for savoriness, lemon juice for
freshness, and dill for a more intense herb flavor. I found mine didn’t need anything else.
6. NOTE: If you don’t have hummus, tahini (which you can DIY!) will make a great base substitution for the
sauce - just adjust the seasonings to accommodate the lack of flavor tahini provides.
7. Also prepare the parsley-tomato topping by tossing tomato and parsley with lemon juice and setting aside
to marinate.
8. Once sweet potatoes are fork tender and the chickpeas are golden brown - roughly 25 minutes - remove
from oven.
9. For serving, flip potatoes flesh-side up and smash down the insides a little bit. Then top with chickpeas,
sauce and parsley-tomato garnish. Serve immediately.
10. Additional side ideas might include Hummus, Pita Chips, Baba Ganoush, or Persian Eggplant Dip. Enjoy!

Notes
*Adjust number of sweet potatoes per person, and buy organic when possible for best quality and flavor.

Nutrition Information
Serving size: 1 of 4
Sodium: 82mg

Calories: 313

Fiber: 11.7g

Fat: 5g

Saturated fat: .7g

Carbohydrates: 60g

Sugar: 3.9g

Protein: 8.6g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/mediterraneanbaked-sweet-potatoes/

