Miso Sesame Winter Squash
As I mention up above, I used unpeeled, seeded delicata squash here, but you can
use other winter squash. Peel it first though. Bryant uses 2 1/2 lbs. peeled sweet
potatoes / no tofu.
2 pounds delicata squash (~3), halved, seeded, and cut into 1/2-inch
inch thick pieces
2 tablespoons toasted sesame oil
2 tablespoons molasses
1 teaspoon tamari or shoyu
2 tablespoons pure maple syrup
1 heaping tablespoon white or yellow miso
1/4 cup freshly squeezed orange juice
1 tablespoon freshly squeezed lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon grated lemon zest
5 tablespoons water
8 ounces organic extra-firm tofu, pressed, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
Various toppings: toasted sesame seeds, chopped arugula, basil, basil
flowers, lemon wedges
Preheat the oven to 425F / 220C, with a rack in the middle.
In a large bowl, toss the squash with 1 tablespoon of the sesame oil. Spread the
squash on a parchment-lined or well-greased baking sheet in a single layer and roast
for 40 minutes, turning over with a fork after 20 minutes. Or, until golden on both
sides.
In the meantime, in a medium-size bowl, whisk together the molasses, tamari, maple
syrup, miso, orange juice, lemon juice, lemon zest, water, and the remaining
tablespoon of sesame oil. Add the tofu, toss to coat, and set aside.
When the squash is deeply golden on both sides, remove from the oven.
Transfer the squash to a 2-quart baking dish. Pour the tofu mixture over the squash,
and gently toss. Bake, uncovered, for 30 minutes, or until a good amount of the
marinade boils off. Toss a couple times along the way. Finish under the boiler if you
like, or if you like a bit of extra color on top. Remove from the oven, and season with
salt, if needed. Finish with some toasted sesame seeds, chopped arugula, and/or
herbs, and serve immediately with lemon wedges on the side (to squeeze on top).
Serves 4-6.
Adapted from the Molasses, Miso, and Maple Candied Sweet Potatoe recipe in
Bryant Terry's The Inspired Vegan.

101 Cookbooks http://www.101cookbooks.com/

