SIMPLE VEGAN OMELET
 
Prep time

Cook time

Total time

5 mins

25 mins

30 mins

 

An easy vegan omelet for first timers. 7 ingredients, loads of
veggies, simple methods. Hearty, savory, fluffy and delicious.
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Breakfast
Cuisine: Vegan, Gluten Free
Serves: 1

Ingredients
Omelet:
5 ounces (~3/4 cup) firm silken tofu, drained and gently patted dry
2 Tbsp hummus
2 large cloves garlic, minced
2 Tbsp nutritional yeast
Salt and black pepper
1/4 tsp paprika
1 tsp cornstarch or arrowroot powder
Filling:
1 heaping cup veggies of choice (I like onion, tomato, mushroom, spinach)
Toppings:
Fresh herbs
Salsa
Vegan Parmesan Cheese

Instructions
1. Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
2. Prep veggies, drain and dry tofu, and mince garlic. Set aside.
3. Heat a small-to-medium, oven-safe skillet over medium heat. Once hot, add olive oil and minced garlic
and cook for 1-2 minutes or until just lightly golden brown.
4. Transfer garlic to food processor, along with remaining omelet ingredients (tofu – cornstarch) and mix to
combine, scraping down sides as needed. Add just a touch of water to thin – 1-2 Tbsp at most. Set aside.
5. To the still warm skillet over medium heat, add a bit more olive oil and the veggies. Season with salt and
pepper and sauté to desired doneness. I like to start with onions and tomatoes, then add mushrooms, and
end with spinach so each has proper time to cook. Set aside.

6. Remove skillet from heat and make sure it’s coated with enough oil so the omelet doesn’t stick. Add
back 1/4 of the veggies and spoon on the omelet batter, spreading it gently with a spoon or rubber
spatula, being careful not to tear or cause gaps. The thinner and more evenly you can spread it the better.
So you may not end up using it all.
7. Cook over medium heat on the stove top for 5 minutes until the edges start to dry. Then place in 375
degree oven and bake until dry and deep golden brown – 10-15 minutes. The longer it bakes the less
soft/wet it will be, so if you prefer a more “well done” omelet, cook closer to 15 or more.
8. Using an oven mitt, in the last few minutes of cooking carefully add remaining veggies back on top of the
omelet and cook another 1-2 minutes to warm through.
9. Carefully remove from oven with oven mitt and fold over gently with a spatula. If it doesn’t want to fold,
you can serve it as a frittata or scramble!
10. Serve with desired toppings. I went with salsa, vegan parmesan cheese, cilantro and toast.

Notes
*Loosely adapted from Post Punk Kitchen

Nutrition Information
Serving size: 1 omelet
Sugar: 2g

Calories: 232

Sodium: 760mg

Fiber: 8g

Fat: 7.8g

Saturated fat: 1.2g

Carbohydrates: 22g

Protein: 22g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/simple-veganomelet/

