PAD THAI SPRING ROLLS
 
Prep time

Cook time

Total time

15 mins

40 mins

55 mins

 

Amazing 10-ingredient pad thai spring rolls with spicy-sweet
noodles, crispy baked tofu, and fresh carrots and herbs! A
healthier vegan, gluten free entree.
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Entree, Snack
Cuisine: Vegan, Thai
Serves: 4 (8 rolls)

Ingredients
SPRING ROLLS
14 ounces (396 g) extra firm tofu
8 ounces (226 g) white or brown rice noodles
8-10 white or brown rice spring roll papers (I love Banh Trang brand)
2 cups thinly sliced carrots
1 large handful fresh cilantro
SAUCE
3 Tbsp (45 g) tamarind concentrate (I love this brand)
3 Tbsp (45 ml) tamari or soy sauce + more for tofu
3-4 Tbsp (36-48 g) coconut sugar or maple syrup (or sub brown sugar or honey if not vegan)
1/2 lime, juiced (~1 Tbsp, 15 ml)
1-2 tsp chili garlic sauce (I love this brand) + more for tofu
FOR SERVING optional
Peanut Sauce / Almond Sauce / Cashew Sauce
Sriracha

Instructions
1. Preheat oven to 400 degrees F and line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
2. Wrap tofu in a clean towel. Set something heavy on top - such as a cast iron pan - to press out liquid for 15
minutes. Then cut into 1/2-inch wide rectangular strips.
3. Arrange tofu on the baking sheet, giving each piece some space so it can firm up. Bake for 28-30 minutes
to dry and firm the tofu. For softer tofu, bake for 20 minutes. For firmer, bake for 30-35 minutes. Set aside.
4. In the meantime, prep carrots, cilantro, and cook rice noodles according to package instructions, then
drain and set aside.

5. To make the sauce, add tamarind, tamari, coconut sugar, lime and chili garlic sauce to a small saucepan
and bring to a simmer over medium heat. Once it begins bubbling, lower heat to low and cook for 3-4
minutes, stirring frequently.
6. Taste and adjust seasonings as needed, adding more tamari or soy sauce for saltiness, chili garlic for heat,
coconut sugar or maple syrup for sweetness, or lime for acidity. You want it pretty flavorful with a
balance of salty, sweet and sour, so don’t be shy! Remove from heat and set aside.
7. Heat a large skillet over medium heat. Once hot, add baked tofu and 1 tsp each chili garlic sauce and
tamari or soy sauce, plus 1 Tbsp of the Pad Thai sauce. Sauté, stirring frequently, for 1-2 minutes. Remove
from pan and set aside.
8. Add cooked noodles to the still-hot pan over medium heat and add remaining Pad Thai sauce. Use tongs to
disperse sauce and toss noodles. Cook for 1-2 minutes, then remove from heat and set aside.
9. Assemble a station for preparing the spring rolls with a shallow bowl or plate (for dunking the rice paper),
bring a kettle or pot of water to a boil (to cook the rice paper with), and a clean work surface (such as a
large cutting board).
10. Gather all ingredients and add hot water to the shallow bowl or pan. Let it cool for 1-2 minutes, then add 1
rice paper at a time and cook/soften for 45 seconds to 1 minute. You’ll know it’s ready when you touch it
and it swirls around in the water.
11. Lift and let excess water drip off, then transfer to your clean work surface. Top with pad thai noodles,
tofu, carrots and cilantro, then roll over once, tuck in sides, and continue rolling all the way up. Place
seam-side down on a serving plate or baking sheet and cover with a damp, room temperature towel to
keep fresh.
12. Continue until all spring rolls are prepared - about 8.
13. Serve as is with a bit more chili garlic sauce or Sriracha! Another great addition is peanut, almond, or
cashew butter sauce (see links to variations/recipes above).
14. Best when fresh, though leftovers keep covered in the refrigerator for 2-3 days.

Nutrition Information
Serving size: 1 spring roll
Sugar: 8.8g

Calories: 204

Sodium: 391mg

Fiber: 2g

Fat: 2.9g

Saturated fat: 0g

Carbohydrates: 30g

Protein: 6.6g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/pad-thai-springrolls/

