Pineapple Rice Recipe
You can use extra­virgin coconut oil in the dressing instead of the macadamia,
olive or sunflower oils if you like. In fact, it's a great choice, particularly if you'll be
serving the rice hot. It solidifies at room temperature. Follow the same instructions,
just don't be alarmed by the white flecks in the dressing after you puree it. They
will disappear upon heating.
1/3 cup macadamia oil, olive oil, or sunflower oil
2 teaspoons toasted sesame oil
1/4 cup (fresh or canned) all-natural 100% pineapple juice
1 garlic clove
1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes
2 tablespoons soy sauce (or shoyu)
1 cup pineapple, cut into chunks
2 teaspoons freshly grated ginger
1/4 teaspoon fine grain sea salt
4 handfuls of mizuna, watercress, or arugula
2 1/2 cups cooked brown rice, room temperature
4 green onions, thinly sliced
3 shallots, peeled and thinly sliced
1 cup cashews, roasted/toasted and chopped
1/2 small serrano chile, seeded and deveined, and minced (optional)
4 ounces seitan, cut into little bits and pan-fried (optional)
Start by making the dressing. Combine the oil, sesame oil, pineapple juice, garlic, red
pepper flakes, soy sauce, fresh pineapple, ginger, and salt in a blender or food
processor. Puree until smooth. Transfer to a small saucepan, and gently warm just
before serving, don't simmer or boil.
In an extra-large bowl toss the mizuna with a generous splash of the dressing.
Arrange it on a platter (as a bed for the rice)
You can serve the rice portion of this recipe room temperature or hot - Wayne really
loved the hot version, and so did I. In the same bowl you used to toss the greens, or
in an extra large skillet over medium heat, combine the rice, most of the onions,
shallots, cashews and serrano chile, and seitan. Add about half of the dressing and
toss well. If you are serving the rice hot, saute it in the pan until it is heated
throughout. Taste, and adjust with more dressing if needed. Spoon the rice over the
greens and finish with any remaining onions, shallots, cashews, and seitan.
Serves 2- 4, main vs. side.
Inspired by and (heavily) adapted from a recipe in the Summer 2009 Edible
Hawaiian Islands publication.

101 Cookbooks http://www.101cookbooks.com/

