30-MINUTE PORTOBELLO MUSHROOM STIR FRY
 
 

Prep time

Cook time

Total time

15 mins

15 mins

30 mins

Flavorful, satisfying portobello mushroom stir fry with red bell
pepper and broccolini. Naturally sweetened and just 30 minutes to
prepare!
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Entrèe
Cuisine: Asian, Gluten Free, Vegan
Serves: 2-3

Ingredients
MARINADE/SAUCE
2 cloves garlic, minced (~1 Tbsp or 6 g)
2 tsp minced ginger
3-4 Tbsp (45-60 ml) maple syrup (or agave nectar or coconut sugar)
1/2 tsp red pepper flake (more or less to taste)
3-4 Tbsp tamari (or soy sauce if not gluten free || more or less to taste)
1 Tbsp (15 ml) sesame oil (toasted or untoasted)
3 Tbsp (45 ml) lime juice
1 Tbsp (15 ml) water
VEGETABLES
2 portobello mushrooms (~20 g each)
1 red bell pepper, thinly sliced (120 g)
1 cup chopped broccolini (91 g)
optional: 1 cup chopped green onion (100 g)
FOR SERVING optional
4 cups (632 g) cooked brown rice or cauliflower rice
1 tsp sesame seeds

Instructions
1. Cook rice (or cauliflower rice) if serving with stir fry. I prefer this method from Saveur.
2. Next wipe portobello mushrooms clean with a slightly damp towel (do not immerse in water or they will
get soggy) and slice into thin strips (see photo).
3. Prepare marinade by adding all ingredients to a small mixing bowl and whisking to combine. Taste and
adjust flavor as needed, adding more ginger for brightness, lime juice for acidity, tamari for saltiness, red

pepper flake for heat, or maple syrup for sweetness.
4. Add portobello mushrooms to a large shallow dish, such as a 9x13-inch baking pan, and top with
marinade. Gently stir/toss to combine. Set aside to marinate for 10-12 minutes while you prep your
vegetables. Toss occasionally to evenly coat.
5. Chop vegetables as set aside. Once portobellos marinated, heat a large skillet over medium heat and add a
bit of sesame oil. Then add only as many portobellos will fit comfortably in the pan (see photo), and sauté
for 2-4 minutes on each side, or until golden brown and slightly seared. You may have to do this in two
batches depending on the size of your pan.
6. Set portobellos aside and loosely cover to keep warm. Then add red pepper and broccolini to the pan and
increase heat to medium-high. Sauté for 2-3 minutes, stirring frequently.
7. Add the green onion (optional) and any remaining portobello marinade and toss to coat. Cook for 1
minute. Then remove from heat and serve immediately. Cooking the vegetables for a short time on very
high heat will give them a nice sear and prevent them from getting soggy.
8. Enjoy as is, with chili garlic sauce, sesame seeds, or a garnish of chopped green onion. Best when fresh,
though leftovers keep in the refrigerator up to 2-3 days. Reheat in the microwave or the stovetop.

Notes
*Nutrition information is a rough estimate for 1 of 3 servings without additional toppings/sides.

Nutrition Information
Serving size: 1/3 of recipe*
Sugar: 15.8 g

Calories: 161

Sodium: 1040 g

Fiber: 4 g

Fat: 5 g

Saturated fat: 0.7 g

Carbohydrates: 26.5 g

Protein: 6.1 g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/30-minuteportobello-mushroom-stir-fry/

