SMOKY BLACK BEAN BEET BURGERS
 
 

Prep time

Cook time

Total time

20 mins

40 mins

1 hour

10-ingredient, smoky black bean beet burgers with walnuts,
quinoa and a blend of spices. Hearty, nutritionally-dense and
simple to prepare.
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Entree
Cuisine: Vegan, Gluten Free
Serves: 8-9 patties

Ingredients
3/4 cup cooked quinoa
1/2 large red onion, finely diced (~3/4 cup)
1 cup finely chopped mushrooms (shitake, baby bella or white button)
Salt & Pepper
1 15-ounce can black beans, well rinsed and drained
1 cup finely grated raw beet
1 tsp cumin
1/2 tsp chili powder (or sub extra cumin)
1/4 tsp smoked paprika
~1/2 cup raw walnuts, crushed or ground into a loose meal

Instructions
1. Heat a large skillet over medium-low heat and add some nonstick spray or a bit of olive oil. Once hot add
the onion and sauté, seasoning with a pinch each salt and pepper.
2. When the onions are soft – about 5 minutes – turn up the heat to medium and add the mushrooms. Season
with another pinch of salt and pepper and cook until the mushrooms and onions are slightly browned and
fragrant – about 3 minutes.
3. Remove from heat and add black beans and mash. You’re looking for a rough mash, so you can leave a bit
of texture if you want.
4. Transfer the mixture to a mixing bowl and add the quinoa, beets, spices and stir. For even more flavor,
add a shake of vegan worcestershire or A-1 sauce (optional).
5. Lastly, add the walnut meal a little at a time until the mixture is able enough to form into patties. Set in
the fridge to chill while your oven preheats to 375 degrees F (skip this step if cooking on the stovetop or
grill - see notes).

6. Coat a baking sheet with nonstick spray or olive oil. Form mixture into roughly 8-9 patties. I use a peanut
butter jar lid lined with plastic wrap to get the perfect shape (a tip I learned from Iowa Girl Eats). You can
also just take handfuls and mash them into loose patties. The thicker you make them, the longer they’ll
take to cook through, but the “juicier” and heartier they’ll be! Thinner patties will cook faster.
7. Arrange burgers on a baking sheet and brush or spray the tops with olive oil. Bake at 375 for a total of 3045 minutes, gently flipping at the halfway mark. Cook longer to dry them out even more and achieve
more crisp, but it’s not necessary.
8. Serve on small buns or atop mixed greens with desired toppings. See notes for freezing instructions.

Notes
*For a quicker cook time, form into slightly thinner patties and brown in a skillet over medium heat lightly
coated with olive, canola or coconut oil. Cook until brown on both sides – 3-4 minutes each. NOTE: This method
doesn’t get them as well done in the middle, but the crust is more pronounced.
* FREEZING: If you don’t want to cook the whole batch at once, form into 10 patties, par-bake them at 375 for
15-20 minutes. Then cool and stack between layers of parchment paper and cover. Freeze for up to a few weeks.
To cook, place on baking sheet still frozen and bake at 375 degrees F until desired texture/color is reached roughly 25-35 minutes.

Nutrition Information
Serving size: 1 of 9 patties
Sodium: 257mg

Fiber: 3.8g

Calories: 125

Fat: 4.9g

Carbohydrates: 17.2g

Sugar: 1.8g

Protein: 6.1g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/smoky-black-beanbeet-burgers/

