THE WORLD'S EASIEST STICKY BUNS
 
 

Prep time

Cook time

Total time

1 hour 30 mins

25 mins

1 hour 55 mins

Easy, fool-proof sticky buns for the novice baker. 9 basic
ingredients, no complicated methods, just straight-forward ooey
gooey sticky buns. And they're vegan!
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Dessert
Cuisine: Vegan
Serves: 10

Ingredients
DOUGH
1 cup Unsweetened Original Almond Breeze almond milk
3 Tbsp vegan butter
1 packet rapid rise (instant) yeast (~ 2 1/4 tsp)
1 Tbsp sugar
1/4 tsp salt
2.5 - 3 cups unbleached all purpose flour (I mixed all purpose and whole wheat pastry 2:1)
FILLING
1/4 cup vegan butter, melted
1/2 cup brown sugar OR granulated sugar
1/2 Tbsp cinnamon
STICKY GLAZE
1/2 cup brown sugar
1/2 cup vegan butter
1/2 cup pecans, chopped

Instructions
1. In a large sauce pan (or in a bowl in the microwave at 30 sec increments), heat the almond milk and 3
Tbsp Earth Balance until warm and melted, never reaching boiling. Remove from heat and let cool to 110
degrees, or the temperature of bath water. It should be warm but not too hot or it will kill the yeast.
2. Transfer mixture to a large mixing bowl and sprinkle on yeast. Let activate for 10 minutes, then add 1
Tbsp sugar and the salt and stir.
3. Next add in flour 1/2 cup at a time, stirring as you go. The dough will be sticky. When it is too thick to stir,
transfer to a lightly floured surface and knead for a minute or so until it forms a loose ball, adding more

flour as you go and as it will absorb. Rinse your mixing bowl out, coat it with canola or grape seed oil, and
add your dough ball back in. Roll around to coat all sides. Cover with plastic wrap and set in a warm place
to rise for about 1 hour, or until doubled in size.
4. While dough is rising, prepare sticky glaze by mixing butter and brown sugar and spreading it in an even
layer on the bottom of an 8x8 baking dish. Top with pecans and set aside.
5. On a lightly floured surface, roll out the dough into a thin rectangle. Brush with 1/4 cup melted vegan
butter and top with 1/2 cup brown sugar (or granulated sugar) and 1/2 - 1Tbsp cinnamon.
6. Starting at one end, tightly roll up the dough and situate seam side down. Then with a serrated knife or a
string of floss, cut the dough into 1.5 - 2 inch sections and position in your 8x8 dish with the glaze layer on
the bottom (you should have about 10 rolls). Cover with plastic wrap and set on top of the oven to let it
briefly rise again while you preheat oven to 350 degrees.
7. Once the oven is hot, bake rolls for 25-30 minutes or until slightly golden brown. Let cool for a few
minutes, carefully invert and then serve immediately.

Notes
*Adapted from my World's Easiest Vegan Cinnamon Rolls
*Also adapted from Ina Garten

Nutrition Information
Serving size: 1 roll
Sodium: 251 mg

Calories: 358
Fiber: 1.7 g

Fat: 20 g

Saturated fat: 5 g

Carbohydrates: 40 g

Sugar: 15 g

Protein: 4 g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/the-worlds-easieststicky-buns/

