7 INGREDIENT VEGAN STUFFED MUSHROOMS
 
 

Prep time

Cook time

Total time

15 mins

1 hour

1 hour 15 mins

Simple, savory 7 ingredient stuffed mushrooms topped with a
black rice-walnut filling and vegan parmesan cheese!
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Appetizer
Cuisine: Vegan, Gluten Free
Serves: 14 mushrooms

Ingredients
1/2 cup black rice (or sub wild or brown rice)
scant 1 cup vegetable stock
1 10-ounce package baby portobello or white button mushrooms (~ 14 mushrooms)
1/4 cup vegan parmesan cheese + more for topping (or sub real Parm if not dairy-free)
1/4 cup raw walnuts, crushed
1.5 tsp finely minced garlic
1 1/2 Tbsp Olive Oil + more for drizzling/coating

Instructions
1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees and rinse rice in a fine mesh strainer.
2. Bring veggie stock to a boil in a small saucepan, then add rice. Lower heat, cover and cook until liquid is
completely absorbed – anywhere from 30-45 minutes. Taste to sample doneness – if you prefer a chewier,
softer rice, cook longer. If you’re OK with more bite, check around the 25-minute mark.
3. In the meantime, place walnuts on a baking sheet and toast in oven for 5 minutes. Set aside.
4. Brush dirt from mushrooms using a damp towel and remove stems. Brush or spray with olive oil and set
aside.
5. Prepare parmesan cheese if needed. Set aside.
6. Once rice is done, fluff and then add vegan parmesan cheese, toasted walnuts, minced garlic and 1.5 Tbsp
olive oil. Stir, taste and adjust seasonings as needed. I added just a pinch of salt and pepper and a little
more vegan parmesan.
7. Bake the mushrooms on a baking sheet WITHOUT the filling for 10 minutes to soften.
8. Remove from oven and scoop generous spoonfuls of the filling into the par-baked mushrooms. (You will
have a little leftover filling.) Top with additional vegan parmesan cheese and bake another additional 1518 minutes or until tender and the parmesan is golden brown. (Baking the mushrooms on their own helps
prevent the rice from getting too crisp.)

9. Serve immediately. TIP: Dust your serving plate with vegan parmesan cheese so the bottom of the
mushrooms have plenty of flavor, too.

Notes
*Black rice cooking instructions adapted from The Kitchn

Nutrition Information
Serving size: 1 mushroom
Sodium: 72mg

Fiber: 0.8g

Calories: 66

Fat: 4g

Saturated fat: 0g

Carbohydrates: 8.5g

Protein: 2.2g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/7-ingredient-veganstuffed-mushrooms/

