THAI SPRING ROLLS WITH CASHEW DIPPING SAUCE
 
Prep time

Total time

30 mins

30 mins

 

30-minute Thai Spring Rolls with fresh veggies, basil, and tofu,
served with a savory-sweet cashew sauce. A hearty plant-based
entrée or side!
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Side or Entrée
Cuisine: Thai, Vegan, Gluten Free
Serves: 6-8

Ingredients
SAUCE
1 tsp finely minced garlic
1/4 cup (64 g) cashew butter (salted - if unsalted, add a bit more tamari)
1 Tbsp (15 ml) tamari (or soy sauce if not GF)
1 Tbsp (15 ml) maple syrup, plus more to taste
1 Tbsp (30 ml) lime juice, plus more to taste
Pinch red pepper flakes
Hot water to thin
KALE
2 cups (134 g) kale, torn into small pieces (I also used some green lettuce, which is optional)
1 tsp sesame oil (or sub avocado or olive oil)
1 tsp tamari
ROLLS
6 ounces (170 g) extra firm tofu
4 radishes, very thinly sliced (~1 cup | I used this mandolin)
1 cup (150 g) thinly sliced red bell pepper
1 cup (130 g) thinly sliced carrot
1 cup (~60 g) fresh basil, rinsed and dried, large stems removed
6-8 spring roll rice papers (I like this brand)

Instructions
1. Wrap tofu in a clean, absorbent towel and set something slightly heavy on top - such as a saucepan - to
begin "pressing" and drawing out excess moisture.

2. In the meantime, prepare sauce by adding minced garlic, cashew butter, tamari, maple syrup, lime juice,
and red pepper flake to a small mixing bowl and whisking to combine. Add hot water until you've reached
a semi-thick sauce consistency.
3. Taste and adjust flavor as needed, adding more lime juice for acidity, red pepper flake for heat, tamari for
saltiness, or maple syrup for sweetness. Set aside.
4. Add clean, dry kale to a medium mixing bowl and top with sesame oil and tamari. Massage with hands to
soften and infuse some flavor. This step is optional, but results in a more flavorful roll in my opinion.
5. Prep remaining vegetables and cut tofu into rectangular strips (see photo). Arrange on a platter so they're
easy to access. Also ready a cutting board by slightly dampening its surface - this is where you'll prepare
your spring rolls.
6. Pour very hot water into a wide shallow dish (I use a skillet) and let cool slightly. Then dip one spring roll
wrapper in the water and let it soften for 10-12 seconds, until just pliable. If you let it set too long, the
paper will get too sticky to work with.
7. Use your hands to gently spread the wrapper onto your dampened work surface, making sure there aren't
many creases. Then top with fillings in this order: radish, bell pepper, carrot, tofu, basil, kale. Fold the
bottom of the wrapper over the fillings, firmly tucking them into each other, then fold the sides over the
center, and continue rolling until the spring roll is seam side down.
8. Place seam side down on a serving platter and set aside. Continue until all fillings are used up.
9. Serve with cashew dipping sauce. Best when fresh, though leftovers will keep stored separately for 2-3
days.

Notes
*Nutrition information is a rough estimate for 1 of 8 spring rolls with dipping sauce.

Nutrition Information
Serving size: 1 spring roll with dipping sauce (of 8 total)

Calories: 186

Carbohydrates: 28 g

Fiber: 2.5 g

Sugar: 3.8 g

Sodium: 345 mg

Fat: 5.2 g

Saturated fat: 1 g

Protein: 7.4 g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/thai-spring-rollscashew-dipping-sauce/

