VIETNAMESE SPRING ROLLS WITH CRISPY TOFU
 
 

Prep time

Cook time

Total time

15 mins

15 mins

30 mins

30-minute Vietnamese-inspired spring rolls with fast crispy tofu
and a savory-sweet almond butter dipping sauce. Flavorful, crisp,
delectable, and so fresh and perfect for spring and summer.
Author: Minimalist Baker
Recipe type: Appetizer, Main
Cuisine: Vegan, Vietnamese
Serves: 4 (8 spring rolls total)

Ingredients
Spring Rolls
1/2 cup each julienned carrots, red pepper and cucumber
1 bunch fresh cilantro
1 bunch fresh mint
4 ounces vermicelli or rice noodles (the thinner the better)
8-10 Rice Spring Roll Papers
Almond Butter Dipping Sauce
1/3 cup salted creamy almond butter
1 Tbsp reduced sodium soy sauce (GF if gluten free)
1-2 Tbsp brown sugar, agave or honey if not vegan (depending on preferred sweetness)
1 Tbsp fresh lime juice
1/2 tsp chili garlic sauce
Hot water to thin
Crispy Tofu
8 ounces extra firm tofu, drained and thoroughly dried/pressed
4 Tbsp sesame oil, divided
3 Tbsp cornstarch
2.5 Tbsp almond butter dipping sauce
1 Tbsp reduced sodium soy sauce
1 Tbsp brown sugar or agave nectar

Instructions
1. Start by preparing rice noodles in boiling hot water for about 10 minutes (read instructions on package),
then drain and set aside.

2. Meanwhile, heat a large skillet over medium heat and cut pressed tofu into small rectangles. Toss in 3
Tbsp cornstarch and flash fry in ~3 Tbsp sesame oil, flipping on all sides to ensure even browning – about
5 minutes. Remove from skillet and set aside.
3. Prep veggies and prepare almond butter sauce by adding all sauce ingredients except water to a small
mixing bowl and whisk to combine. Add enough hot water to thin until a pourable sauce is achieved.
Adjust flavors as needed (I often add a little more chili garlic sauce and brown sugar).
4. To add more flavor to the tofu, transfer ~2.5 Tbsp of the sauce to a small bowl and add an additional
Tablespoon each of soy sauce, sesame oil and brown sugar (or agave) and whisk to combine.
5. Add tofu back to the skillet over medium heat and add “sauce/glaze,” stirring to coat. Cook for several
minutes or until all of the sauce is absorbed and the tofu looks glazed, stirring frequently (see photos). Set
aside with prepared veggies and vermicelli noodles.
6. To assemble spring rolls, pour very hot water into a shallow dish or skillet and immerse rice paper to
soften for about 10-15 seconds.
7. Transfer to a damp cutting board or damp towel and gently spread out edges into a circle. It may take a
little practice, so don’t feel bad if your first few attempts are a fail!
8. To the bottom third of the wrapper add a small handful of vermicelli noodles and layer carrots, bell
peppers, cucumber, fresh herbs and 2-3 pieces of tofu on top (see photo). Gently fold over once, tuck in
edges, and continue rolling until seam is sealed.
9. Place seam-side down on a serving platter and cover with damp warm towel to keep fresh. Repeat until all
fillings are used up – about 8-10 spring rolls total.
10. Serve with almond butter sauce and sriracha or hot sauce of choice. I like to mix mine and go dip happy.
11. Leftovers store well individually wrapped in plastic wrap, though best when fresh.

Notes
*Inspired by the lovely Heidi at Foodie Crush

Nutrition Information
Serving size: 1 roll with dipping sauce
Carbohydrates: 25g

Sugar: 3.6g

Calories: 274
Sodium: 172mg

Fat: 12g

Saturated fat: 1.5g

Fiber: 1.5g

Protein: 6.5g

Recipe by Minimalist Baker at http://minimalistbaker.com/vietnamese-springrolls-with-crispy-tofu/

